OK, WELCOME TO THE
THURSDAY FEBRUARY TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR MEETING OF THE NRA
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION
THE MEETING IS BEING HELD IN
PERSON AND ELECTRONICALLY VIA
ZOM.
WE INTEND TO CONDUCT THIS
HYBRID MEETING SIMILAR TO AN
IN-PERSON MEETING.
HOWEVER, PLEASE BE PATIENT IF
THERE ARE TECHNICAL ISSUES
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC WHO WOULD
LIKE TO COMMENT ON HEARINGS OR
OTHER MATTERS, THEY DO SO IN
PERSON OR VIRTUALLY TO SPEAK
DURING ANY OF THE PUBLIC
COMMENT OPPORTUNITIES PLEASE
CALL TO 063 THREE SEVEN NINE
SEVEN TWO THREE OR TOLL FREE
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN ENTER
MEETING ID NINE SIX FIVE THREE
SIX SIX NINE NINE SEVEN SIX TWO
.
THIS INFORMATION IS ALSO
AVAILABLE ON THE PUBLISHED
AGENDA IN THE PUBLIC NOTES
SECTION OF THE CITY WEBSITE AND
ON THE BROADCAST OF THIS
MEETING ON CTM CAN CAN BE FOUND
ON XFINITY CHANNEL 16 AT&T
CHANNEL NINETY NINE STREAMING
ONLINE ON YOUTUBE OR AT EIGHT
TO GOGOI WATCH CTM MISS
THATCHER WILL YOU PLEASE CALL
THE ROLL YES COMMISSIONER
CALDERON HERE COMMISSIONER HERE
SMITH PRESIDENT COMMISSIONER
STEVE HERE WOULD HAVE WOULD
THANK YOU BUT I GOT MY PANEL
HERE MR. ROCKLIN HERE
COMMISSIONER ROSS YOU HAVE A
QUORUM OK, THANK YOU MISS
THATCHER.
OK NOW WE'LL GO AND APPROVE THE
AGENDA.
ARE THERE ANY ADDITIONS,
DELETIONS OR CHANGES TO
TONIGHT'S AGENDA?
THERE WAS A LATE BREAKING
AGENDA SENT KIND OF LATE IN THE
DAY BUT IF YOU HAVE YOU KNOW
YOU'LL BE ALL RIGHT.
IT WAS JUST A MINOR.
YEAH.
THE ONLY THING THAT WAS CHANGED
WAS THAT UNDER REPORTS FROM OUR
STAFF WE ADDED A DISCUSSION
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT AND
RETREAT.
THAT'S IT.
I HAD ONE AGENDA ITEM IN
DECEMBER.
I BELIEVE WE HAD AN ELECTION
OF OFFICERS AND YOU WERE NOT
PRESENT FOR THAT.
OK, AND I JUST WONDERED I
WANTED TO TALK ABOUT THAT TO
MAKE SURE YOU EVERYTHING WAS
CLEAR WITH WHAT WE DID AND IT
WAS OK SHOULD IT IS THAT OLD
BUSINESS OR OR CAN YOU JUST LET
US GO RIGHT NOW OR WHAT WHAT
WHAT SHOULD I DO WITH THAT
BECAUSE I HAD THAT QUESTION I
DIDN'T KNOW WHERE TO PUT IT.
IS IT THAT YOU WEREN'T SURE WHO
WAS ELECTED?
I WAS NO.
IT WAS MORE OF A PROCEDURAL
THING.
WHAT DID WE DO THE PROCEDURE
RIGHT WITHOUT STAFF HERE.
YEAH, EXACTLY WHAT TO DO ALL
THE TIME IS TO DO SO NICELY.
YES.
I WENT OVER IT WITH THE STAFF
PERSON WHO FILLED IN FOR ME AT
THAT MEETING AND IT DID REQUIRE
A LITTLE SORTING OUT BECAUSE HE
DOESN'T KNOW ALL OF YOU.
YEAH BUT WE GOT THROUGH IT AND
WE WATCHED THE VIDEO MINUTES I
THINK IT WAS ALL GOOD EXCELLENT
.
YOU DID A GREAT JOB.
GREAT.
SO THAT AGENDA ITEM IS TAKEN
CARE OF AND THEN WITHOUT
OBJECTION I DON'T SEE ANY OTHER
AGENDA ITEMS SO WE'LL JUST SAY
IT'S APPROVED AS PRESENTED.
THANK YOU FOR THAT JILL.
NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE
THAT IS NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA TO
COMMENT ON SUCH OTHER
PRESERVATION MATTERS, PLEASE
CALL IN USING THE INFORMATION
DISPLAYED ON THE MEETING AGENDA
AND THE VIDEO FEED CITY STAFF
WILL SELECT ONE BY ONE USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR
PHONE NUMBER
TO ELECTRONICALLY
RAISE YOUR HAND TO INDICATE
YOUR DESIRE TO SPEAK PLEASE
PRESS STAR NINE ON YOUR PHONE
AND YOU'LL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE CALLING IN?
NO ONE IN THE ROOM AND NO ONE
COMING TO THE PODIUM HERE.
SO I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
COMMENT SECTION OK E UNFINISHED
BUSINESS.
YEAH, WE DO NOT HAVE ANY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS SO NOW WE
WILL MOVE RIGHT INTO HEARINGS
AND WE WILL GO TO HEARING F ONE
THAT'S FOR O TO SECOND STREET.
MISS THATCHER, WOULD YOU PLEASE
GIVE THE STAFF REPORT?
YES.
THANK YOU.
I'VE JUST PROMOTED LINKLETTER
WHO IS THE AFRICANS
REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OWNERS
REPRESENTATIVE DOWN HERE.
I'M A CLASS.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M GOING TO RUN THROUGH THE
STAFF REPORT HERE.
THIS IS IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THIS IS A ONE AND THREE QUARTER
STOREY HOME FEATURE SIDE GABLES
NEWILL WINDOWS AND THE STONE
FRONT PORCH SQUARE HALF COLUMNS
A ONE STOREY EDITION WITH A
SHED ROOF BARNS THE REAR OF THE
HOUSE NW IN THE 1894 CITY
DIRECTORY WHICH MEANS THAT IT'S
PROBABLY OLDER THAN THAT,
POSSIBLY CONSIDERABLY BASED ON
ITS DESIGN IN 2014 FAKE BRICK
SIDING IN A NON HISTORIC
CHIMNEY WERE REMOVED.
SO TO THE SOUTHWEST CORNER
OF SECOND STREET AND WEST
WILLIAM STREET THIS IS THE
SECOND STREET VIEW FROM THE
FRONT THE AFGHANS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL TO ADD A ONE HUNDRED
TWENTY NINE SQUARE FOOT SECOND
FLOOR BATHROOM ADDITION ON TOP
OF AN EXISTING SINGLE STORY
REAR WING IN PHILIDOR OPENING
ON A POST 1948 EDITION THAT HAD
A SIX BY SIX INCH FRONT ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION.
ALL RIGHT, RUNNING THROUGH THE
PICTURES THIS IS THE SOUTH THE
SUNNY SIDE OF THE HOUSE AND
THIS IS THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
HOUSE.
YOU CAN SEE THE THE ONE STORY
WING IN THE BACK HERE IT'S THIS
ROOF SLOPES THIS WAY AND THIS
ROUTE SLOPES THIS WAY AND IT'S
IT'S ALL ACCOMPANIED BY THE
UKRAINIAN BETTER IT'S SORT OF A
HIP COMING DOWN IN TWO
DIRECTIONS ON THE BACK OF THE
HOUSE THERE IS A DOOR IN AN
OPENING HERE THAT I'M I
APOLOGIZE.
I DON'T HAVE A REALLY GOOD
PICTURE OF THERE.
MAYBE ONE OF THE PACKET BUT
IT'S THIS LITTLE EDITION IN THE
BACK IS NOT FROM THE PERIOD
OF SIGNIFICANCE.
SO THIS DOOR THEREFORE IS NOT
ANYTHING HISTORIC AND STAFF HAS
NO PROBLEM WITH IN FILLING THAT
AND THE ADDITION WOULD SIT
RIGHT UP HERE ON TOP OF THE
ROOF AND ON TOP OF THE WHAT THE
SINGLE STORY ON BACK CURRENT
ROOF PLAN.
THIS IS THE FRONT FRONT PORCH
FACING EAST.
HERE'S THE ROOF BRIDGE AND
HERE'S THOSE THERE'S TWO ONE
STORY ROOF SURFACES ON THE BACK
AND THE LITTLE THIS ONE IS THE
THE THE NONCONTRIBUTING PART
OF THE BUILDING PROPOSAL IS TO
ADD THIS ROOM ON THE TOP 14
FEET BY SIX FEET APPROXIMATELY
WOULD HAVE A METAL ROOF AND IT
LOOKS LIKE IT'S GOT A SKYLIGHT
THERE THIS IS EXISTING
FOOTPRINT ON THE EXISTING FLOOR
PLAN ON THE FIRST FLOOR.
THIS IS THIS IS THE EXISTING
SECOND FLOOR PLAN.
HERE IS THE PROPOSED WITH THAT
DOORWAY UNFILLED, THEY'RE GOING
TO MAKE BETTER SPACE, BETTER
UTILIZE SOME OF THE SPACE AND
HERE IS THE OUTLINE OF THE
ADDITIONS ON THE SECOND FLOOR
YOU CAN SEE THAT IT'S SET IN
FROM THE CORNER.
LOOKS LIKE I'M NOT EVEN SURE I
CAN READ THAT I'M SURE IT'S IN
MY NOTES IN A MINUTE.
IT'S BACK CONSIDERABLY ON THIS
SIDE AND IT'S REALLY PRETTY
MINIMAL.
THERE'S THERE'S NO THERE ARE
TWO BEDROOMS UP HERE BUT
THERE'S NO BATHROOM AND THIS
WOULD GIVE THEM A BATHROOM ON
THE SECOND FLOOR EXISTING ON
THE TOP AND PROPOSED ON THE
BOTTOM VERY LOW SLOPED ROOF
KEPT BELOW THE GABLE I'M SURE
THE ROOF FRIDGE OF THE HOUSE IT
HAS ON EITHER SIDE A SQUARE
FIXED GLASS PICTURE WINDOW.
THE CLADDING IS A SMOOTH
IMITATION STUCCO AND THE GOAL
IS TO MAKE IT AS UNOBTRUSIVE
AND MINIMAL AND RESEATING AS
POSSIBLE WHEN VIEWED BECAUSE
THIS IS A VERY, VERY PROMINENT
VIEW SINCE IT'S ON A STREET
CORNER THIS IS THE FRONT
ELEVATION BUT THERE ARE NO
CHANGES PROPOSED THERE.
THIS IS THE OTHER SIDE THE
SOUTH SIDE ELEVATION PROPOSAL
FIRST ON THE BOTTOM OF IT I
DON'T KNOW I GET TALK ABOUT
EXISTING ON THE TOP PROPOSED ON
THE BOTTOM, VERY SIMILAR ON
THIS SIDE AND HERE YOU CAN SEE
HOW IT IS SET UP TOP THERE FROM
THE BACK.
HERE'S WHERE THAT OR USED TO BE
THAT'S BEEN UNFILLED.
WE'VE GOT A LONG SKINNY WINDOW
UP HERE ON THE TOP.
WE'VE GOT OUR METAL ROOF AND
SKYLIGHT.
I HAVE TO ADMIT THAT I HAD SOME
CONCERNS ABOUT THE STUCCO THE
IMITATION STUCCO CLADDING BUT
THEN THE APPLICANT SHOWED THESE
PHOTOS OF SAMPLES OF OTHER
BUILDINGS AND IT REALLY IS
REALLY SMOOTH AND CLEAN AND
SIMPLE AND SINCE THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR DOESN'T WANT US
TO CONFUSE THE HISTORIC WORK
FROM THE NEW WORK AND SAYS THAT
IT CAN BE OF MODERN DESIGN, I
THINK THAT THIS IS A PRETTY
COMPLIMENTARY WAY TO ACCOMPLISH
THAT AND STILL PURCHASE
SOMETHING ON THE ROOF IN A WAY
THAT'S DIFFICULT TO FIGURE OUT
IN TERMS OF DESIGN.
LET'S SEE.
THE PROPOSED CURRENT HOUSE IS
TWELVE HUNDRED AND SEVENTEEN
SQUARE FEET.
THIS IS AN INCREASE OF ELEVEN
PERCENT WINDOWS ARE MARVIN
ALUMINUM CLAD THE WOULD ONLY BE
NOMINALLY VISIBLE FROM THE
PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY YOU'D HAVE TO
BACK UP ON MADISON A LOT OR TWO
IN ORDER TO GET A LOOK AT IT
AND STAFF IS RECOMMENDING
APPROVAL.
LET ME GO THROUGH SOME
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES FIRST
SECTION INTERIOR STANDARDS THAT
BEST APPLY AND YOU'RE THESE
WILL ALSO APPLY TO THREE OTHER
APPLICATIONS TONIGHT.
SO YOU'RE ALL FOR LUCK.
I ONLY HAVE TO READ ALL THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES ONCE
AND THEN WE'LL BE GOOD FOR THE
NIGHT.
SO NO.
TWO SAYS THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF PROPERTY SHALL BE RETAINED
AND PRESERVED THE REMOVAL
OF HISTORIC MATERIALS OR
ALTERATION FEATURES AND SPACES
THAT CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY
SHALL BE AVOIDED.
NUMBER FIVE SAYS DISTINCTIVE
MATERIALS, FEATURES, FINISHES
AND CONSTRUCTION TECHNIQUES OR
EXAMPLES OF CRAFTSMANSHIP THAT
CHARACTERIZE A PROPERTY WILL BE
PRESERVED.
NO.9 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS
EXTERIOR ALTERATIONS OR RELATED
NEW CONSTRUCTION SHALL NOT
DESTROY HISTORIC MATERIALS THAT
CHARACTERIZE THE PROPERTY.
THE NEW WORK SHALL BE
DIFFERENTIATED FROM THE OLD SO
COMPATIBLE WITH THE MACING SIZE
SCALE AND ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURES TO PROTECT THE
HISTORIC INTEGRITY OF THE
PROPERTY AND ITS ENVIRONMENT.
AND NO.10 SAYS NEW ADDITIONS
AND ADJACENT OR RELATED NEW
CONSTRUCTION WILL BE UNDERTAKEN
IN SUCH A MANNER THAT IF
REMOVED IN THE FUTURE THE
ESSENTIAL FORM AND INTEGRITY
OF THE HISTORIC PROPERTY WILL
BE UNIMPAIRED FROM THE
SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR AS
GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING SITE.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO
INTRODUCE NEW CONSTRUCTION ONTO
A BUILDING SITE WHICH IS
VISUALLY INCOMPATIBLE IN TERMS
OF SIZE SCALE DESIGN MATERIALS,
COLOR AND TEXTURE OR WHICH
DESTROY HISTORIC RELATIONSHIPS
ON THE SITE IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
LOCATE THE ATTACHED EXTERIOR
ADDITION AT THE REAR OR ON AN
INCONSPICUOUS SIDE OF A
HISTORIC BUILDING AND TO LIMIT
ITS SIZE AND SCALE THE
RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING ALSO DESIGNING NEW
ADDITIONS IN A MATTER THAT
MAKES CLEAR WHAT'S HISTORIC AND
WHAT'S NEW.
SO CONSTRUCTING NEW ADDITIONS
THAT THERE'S THE LEAST POSSIBLE
LOSS OF HISTORIC MATERIALS.
IT'S A CHARACTER DEFINING
FEATURES ARE NOT OBSCURED,
DAMAGED OR DESTROYED, NOT
RECOMMENDED TO DESIGNING AND
CONSTRUCTING NEW ADDITIONS THAT
RESULT IN THE DIMINUTION OR
LOSS OF THE HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE RESOURCE INCLUDING ITS
DESIGN MATERIALS, WORKMANSHIP,
LOCATION OR SETTING FROM THE
ANN ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT
DESIGN GUIDELINES FROM THE
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS
THERE'S APPROPRIATE DESIGN AND
ADDITION SO IT'S COMPATIBLE IN
TERMS OF MARKETING MATERIALS
RELATIONSHIP OF SOLIDS TO AVOID
AND A PORTION OF OPENINGS.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO LIMIT
THE SIZE SCALE OF THE ADDITIONS
IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE HISTORIC
BUILDING SO IT DOES NOT
DIMINISH OR VISUALLY OVERPOWER
THE BUILDING OR THE DISTRICT
EDITIONS FOOTPRINT SHOULD NOT
EXCEED ONE HALF OF THE ORIGINAL
BUILDING'S FOOTPRINT OR ONE
HALF OF THE ORIGINAL BUILDING'S
TOTAL FLOOR AREA NOT
APPROPRIATE IS DESIGNING A NEW
ADDITION THAT REQUIRES THE
REMOVAL OF SIGNIFICANT BUILDING
ELEMENTS OR SITE FEATURES.
ALSO FROM THE DESIGN GUIDELINES
IT IS APPROPRIATE TO PLACE NEW
WALLS IN A DIFFERENT PLANE FROM
THE HISTORIC STRUCTURE IN A
SUBORDINATE POSITION TO THE
HISTORIC FABRIC THAT WOULD
APPLY TO BOTH WALLS AND ROOFS
AND ALSO NOT APPROPRIATE AS
DESIGNING AN ADDITION THAT
OVERPOWERS OR DRAMATICALLY
ALTERS THE ORIGINAL BUILDING
THROUGH SIZE OR HEIGHT.
PERUTZ IS APPROPRIATE TO RETAIN
AND MAINTAIN ORIGINAL HISTORIC
ROOFING MATERIALS RESHAPE
DORMERS, CUPOLAS CHIMNEYS AND
BUILT IN OR DECORATIVE GUTTERS
AND DOWNSPOUTS.
ALL RIGHT.
THAT CAN FEEDSTUFFS REPORT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MISS
THATCHER MYSELF AND
COMMISSIONER KAPLIN WERE ON THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE SO NOW WE'LL
GET THE REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT
.
AND COMMISSIONER CAPLAN, DO YOU
WANT TO GO FIRST ON THIS ONE?
SO JUST LET US KNOW YOU HEARD
THE STAFF REPORT IT WAS WHAT
WERE YOUR KIND OF OBSERVATION
THERE?
THE ONE THING THAT STUCK OUT
FOR ALL OF US WAS THE WAS WAS
THE CHOICE OF SIDING FOR WHAT
YOU PUT UP THERE THE STUCCO THE
PICTURES WERE RELEASED TO ME
THAT YOU JUST SENT.
SO JILL, OTHER THAN THAT I
DIDN'T SEE THAT IT I DIDN'T
DRAMATICALLY TOOK AWAY FROM THE
EXISTING HOUSE.
VERY GOOD.
I THINK THAT JUST
THE ONE THING
THAT WAS MENTIONED IN THE STAFF
REPORT THAT I'LL REITERATE IT
IT IS A CORNER HOUSE.
IT'S A CORNER LOT OUR HOUSE AND
IT IS THERE'S NOT REALLY A
BACKYARD SORT OF SET IN THE IT
FEELS LIKE AT LEAST IN OF THE
FAR BACK CORNER LIKE IF YOU'RE
STANDING ON THE CORNER LOOKING
AT IT'S KIND IN THE FAR CORNER
AWAY FROM YOU AND THERE'S A
VERY NICE FRONT YARD IN A VERY
NICE SIDE YARD.
SO IT IS SORT OF THIS FEELING
OF IT BEING SET BACK A BIT.
IT'S NOT RIGHT ON THE SIDEWALK
JUST TO KIND OF GIVE YOU THE
FEEL OF I MEAN HOPEFULLY YOU'VE
SEEN IT BUT BUT JUST THAT WAS
THE THAT WAS KIND OF YOU KNOW,
WHEN WE WERE LOOKING AT IT THAT
THAT WAS LIKE THE THE
OVERWHELMING FEEL OF THE HOUSE
WAS THAT IT'S JUST KIND
OF PUSHED BACK FROM THE
SIDEWALK ON BOTH SIDES.
OK, SO THEN LET'S LET'S MOVE
NOW TO THE APPLICANT COMMENTS.
SO I SEE WE HAVE THE APPLICANT
MACLANE KUTTER ALREADY ON THE
ZOOM WHICH IS GREAT.
SO HIGH MCCLAIN WOULD YOU
PLEASE GIVE US AN UP LET IT LET
US KNOW IF YOU HEARD ANYTHING
IN THE STAFF REPORT OR IN THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE COMMENTS THAT
YOU HAVE A COMMENT ON OR JUST
GIVE US A GENERAL COMMENT IF
YOU'D LIKE.
LET US KNOW WHAT YOU'D LIKE TO
ADD AND THE FLOOR IS YOURS.
GREAT.
THANK YOU.
THANKS JILL.
I WAS ACTUALLY SUMMARIZING THE
PROJECT THE FIRST FLOOR THE
WORK WAS VERY, VERY MINIMAL
ONLY REMOVING A NINE
NONCONTRIBUTING DOOR AND ADDING
A VERY SMALL BAND SECOND FLOOR.
IT'S A SMALL ADDITION TO THE
BATHROOM WHICH WOULD BE THE
ONLY BATHROOM ON THE SECOND
FLOOR AND SO REALLY THE
INTENTION THERE IS TO BRING THE
HOUSE UP TO CONTEMPORARY LIVING
STANDARDS, MAKE THE HOUSE
ULTIMATELY APPROPRIATE FOR
PEOPLE WITH CHILDREN AND THE
ELDERLY OR OTHERS WHO MIGHT
HAVE A HARD TIME GETTING UP AND
DOWN THE STAIRS, GO TO THE
BATHROOM THE I THINK AS JILL
AMAZING AND KIND OF PLACEMENT
OF THE ADDITION MEANT TO BE
COMPLEMENTARY TO THE HOUSE AND
TO THE SURROUNDINGS IT'S MEANT
TO BE SIMPLE AND RECESSIVE AND
REALLY NOT TAKE ATTENTION AWAY
FROM THE EXISTING HOUSE.
AND SO THE GEOMETRY OF IT AGAIN
THE SETBACKS FROM THE FROM THE
PLANS THE SEVEN PUTS BACK FROM
THE MOST PUBLIC FACING SIDE
OF THE BUILDING.
ALL OF THIS WAS IN THAT SPIRIT
.
I CERTAINLY UNDERSTAND THE
POTENTIAL CONCERNS ABOUT THE
STRUCTURE GIVEN SOME OF IT'S
PRETTY REPUTATIONAL ISSUES.
THE REASON WE CHOSE THE SUKO IS
THAT THERE'S AN EXTREMELY
SIMPLE CLEAN RECESSIVE MATERIAL
AND WHEN PROPERLY INSTALLED
IT'S ALSO A VERY, VERY DURABLE
MATERIAL THAT WILL SHOW WELL
FOR MANY YEARS AND THE HOPE WAS
THAT THAT MASAMICHI NONMATERIAL
THE ADDITIONS AGAIN WOULD BE
COMPLEMENTARY TO THE EXISTING
BUT THIRITH MATERIALITY THAT
THE ADDITION WOULD NOT TRY TO
MASQUERADE AS PART OF THE
ORIGINAL HOUSE, NOT TRY TO LOOK
LIKE THE ORIGINAL HOUSE BUT NOT
TRY TO CONFUSE THE HISTORY
THAT'S EMBEDDED IN THE ORIGINAL
HOUSE.
AND THAT WAS, YOU KNOW, OUR
UNDERSTANDING OF A SECRETARY
INTERIOR'S GUIDELINES.
YEAH, IT'S A DIFFICULT PROJECT
IF A FOREIGNER LIKE SO AGAIN
IMPOSSIBLE TO HIDE ENTIRELY I
THINK IT WILL BE HIT QUITE A
BIT ACTUALLY BUT BY TREES AND
YOU KNOW, MOST VISIBLE FROM THE
NORTH SIDE AND WE'VE DONE OUR
BEST TO MAKE AS AS MINIMALLY
VISIBLE AS POSSIBLE.
GREAT THANKS MCLAINE.
I'M WONDERING IF ANY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS HAVE A QUESTION
FOR THE APPLICANT NOT SEEING
ANY DOWN HERE.
I'M DOWN HERE.
I JUST HAD ONE QUESTION SO I
THINK THE LIKE THE MINIMAL
DETAIL I AGREE LIKE IT REALLY
HELPS WITH I FEEL THAT IT
REALLY IS HELPING WITH THE
COMPLIMENTARY ASPECT AND REALLY
I JUST THE THE ONE DETAIL THAT
DOES THAT I'M CURIOUS ABOUT IS
THE OVERHANGS WHERE YOU SORT
THERE'S THERE'S NO OVERHANGS ON
THE SIDE AND THEN THERE'S A
VERY THIN OVERHANG ON THE BACK
AND SINCE THAT'S REALLY THE YOU
KNOW, ALMOST THE ONLY DETAIL
THAT'S GOING ON, I JUST I'M
CURIOUS WHY CAN YOU EXPLAIN
THAT AND IS THAT I'M SURE IT'S
DOING SOMETHING THAT IS IS
EITHER COMPLEMENTING OR
DIFFERENTIATING.
SO CAN YOU EXPLAIN THAT THROUGH
THE QUESTION?
I MEAN IT'S MEANT TO JUST MAKE
THE THE ARTICULATION OF THE
ROOF FROM THAT WEST SIDE AS
THEN AND AND RECESSIVE AS
POSSIBLE SO THAT WHEN YOU MIX
AS I THINK YOU KNOW, IT'S
COMMONLY CALLED A KNIFE-EDGE
DETRO IT'S MADE TO KIND OF MAKE
THE ROOF ALMOST GO AWAY.
SO THERE ARE SOME VIEWS
CREATED IN THE IN THE PACKAGE.
I DON'T THINK I HAD ANY
ACTUALLY IN THE WEST SIDE BUT
AGAIN IT'S MEANT TO MAKE THE
ROOF YOUR LIGHTER NOT AS HEAVY
AND SO MEANT TO MAKE THE MACING
NOT FEEL AS CLUNKY OR MASSET
ESPECIALLY AS YOU SEE IT FROM
THAT MOST PUBLIC SIDE.
VERY GOOD.
THANKS FOR THAT EXPLANATION.
I DON'T SEE ANY FURTHER
QUESTIONS.
SO NOW NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
SO I'D LIKE TO OPEN A PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THIS APPLICATION
AT FAUROT TO SECOND STREET.
SO PUBLIC COMMENT MAY BE MADE
IN PERSON ARE CALLING IN USING
THE INFORMATION DISPLAYED ON
THE MEETING AGENDA AND THE
VIDEO FEED.
IS THERE ANYONE WAITING TO COME
INTO THE PUBLIC HEARING THERE
IS NOT OK AND AND THERE'S NO
ONE APPROACHING THE PODIUM HERE
SO I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING PORTION OF THIS
APPLICATION AND AND NOW WE'LL
GO INTO COMMISSIONER MOTION AND
I'M WONDERING IF THERE'S A
COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS
APPLICATION.
COMMISSIONER KIONA, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
OF COURSE.
TAKE YOUR TIME.
YEAH,
I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FORUM TO SECOND
THE CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN
THE OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC
DISTRICT TO ADD A ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY NINE SQUARE FOOT
SECOND FLOOR BATHROOM EDITION
ON TOP OF AN EXISTING SINGLE
STORY REAR WING INFO A DOOR
OPENING ON THE POST NINETEEN
FORTY EIGHT EDITION AND ADD A
SIX INCH BY SIX INCH VENT ON
THE S ELEVATION AS PROPOSED THE
WORK IS COMPATIBLE AN EXTERIOR
DESIGN ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE
MATERIAL IN RELATIONSHIP TO THE
REST OF THE BUILDING AND THE
SURROUNDING AREA AND MEETS THE
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR STANDARDS
FOR REHABILITATION GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO, FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE ADDITIONS AND
ROOFS AS WELL AS ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL ADDITIONS,
RESIDENTIAL ADDITIONS AND ROOFS
.
THE SECOND GRADE THAT WAS MOVED
BY COMMISSIONER QUIJANO AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER SMITH.
SO IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE MOTION, ANY COMMENTS?
THERE IS A PHOTO OF THE DOON
OUR PACKET IF ANYONE WANTS TO
SEE THAT BEFORE WE GET TO VOTE
HERE IT'S IT'S SHEET EIGHT ZERO
NINE WHICH IS PAGE SEVENTEEN IS
IT'S A FLUSH DOOR WITH A LITTLE
ANIMAL CUTOUT IN IT LOOKS LIKE
A LITTLE KID OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT I DON'T KNOW VERY SMALL
DOG.
IT'S THERE IF ANYONE WANTS TO
SEE IT I WILL AGREE WITH THE
APPLICANT THAT CORNER LOTS ARE
VERY TRICKY TO ADD ON TO WITH
THE WITH THE STANDARDS AS
THEY'RE WRITTEN.
AND SO YEAH I THINK THIS
APPLICATION MEETS THE STANDARDS
IN DOING SO.
I THINK THAT WHEN YOU HAVE AN
ADDITION ON A HISTORIC HOUSE
THAT IT'S IT'S GOT MINIMAL
DETAILS AND MAYBE YOU COULD SAY
MODERN A MODERN MACING IT IT
REALLY SEEMS TO WORK WELL WHERE
IT'S VERY DIFFERENTIATED
BECAUSE OF THAT AND THEN ALSO
SINCE IT'S SO MINIMAL IT JUST
SEEMS TO COMPLIMENT ALSO IN A
WAY.
SO THAT'S WHAT I'M SEEING HERE
.
SO LET'S GO TO A VOTE IF NOT
SEEING ANY OTHER QUESTIONS OR
COMMENTS SO GREAT.
LET'S LET'S VOTE ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR SAY YES, YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO GREAT
.
SO THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
PLEASE NOTE YOU MUST APPLY FOR
ANY REQUIRED PERMITS FROM THE
CITY BEFORE BEGINNING YOUR
PROJECT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GREAT THANK YOU.
I'LL SEE.
YEAH OK WE WILL NOW MOVE ON TO
THE NEXT HEARING THIS HEARING
F2 FIVE FIFTY TWO 5TH STREET
MISS THATCHER THE STAFF REPORT
PLEASE
FIVE FIFTY TO FIFTH
STREET IS AGAIN IN THE OLD WEST
SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
AS ALL
OF TONIGHT'S APPLICATIONS ARE
THIS IS A TWO STORY GABLE
FRONTIER FEATURES CORNERS
RETURNS A GABLED DORMER ON THE
SOUTH ELEVATION AND A FORWARD
STONE FRONT PORCH WITH TAPERED
ROUND HALF COLUMNS FIRST
APPEARS IN PARK CITY
DIRECTORIES IN 1918 THE DC
APPROVED THE LOCATION OF A GAS
METER ON THE HOUSE IN TWENTY
TWENTY ONE WHICH YOU AND SEE IN
THIS PHOTO HOUSE IS ON THE
NORTHWEST CORNER OF THE STREET
IN WEST MADISON AND THE
APPLICANT IS SEEKING FCC
APPROVAL TO INSTALL A SOLAR
ARRAY OF BLACK ON BLACK PANELS
ON THE SOUTH FACING OF THE
HOUSE.
IT'S ACTUALLY ON THE SOUTH
FACING AND THE NORTH FACING BUT
THE SOUTH FACING WHICH IS NOT
THIS SIDE BUT THE OTHER SIDE IS
WHAT BROUGHT THIS OUT OF STAFF
APPROVAL TERRITORY AND KICKED
IT BACK TO THE COMMISSION.
SO LOVELY HIGHLY VISIBLE CORNER
LOT PROPOSAL IS TO PUT SOME
PANELS BACK HERE FIRST WHEN THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE WALKED UP I
THINK WE WERE ALL PRETTY
UNANIMOUS IN THINKING WELL WHY
DON'T THEY JUST ASK FOR THE
WHOLE ROOF?
BUT THEN WE WALKED ACROSS THE
STREET AND YOU CAN KIND OF SEE
WELL BECAUSE THIS IS REALLY
PROMINENT AS FEATURE OF THE
HISTORIC HOUSE.
SO THERE'S REALLY NO ROOM IN
THE YARD TO PUT ANYTHING LIKE
GROUND MONITOR OR MOUNTED.
THE GARAGE IS SMALL AND
ATTACHED TO THE HOUSE AND SO
IT'S NOT REALLY A SUITABLE
PLACE EITHER FOR SOLAR PANELS
AND THERE'S NOT A BACKYARD ON
THIS HOUSE EITHER ANOTHER
CORNER LOT.
SO REALLY IN ORDER TO HAVE
SOLAR PANELS ON THIS HOUSE
ENOUGH FOR THEM, THEY'RE
PUTTING HALF OF THEM.
THEY'RE PROPOSING ON THE BACK
HALF BACK HERE AND THE OTHER
HALF WHERE I JUST SHOWED YOU.
SO THIS IS THE LIGHT YOU CAN
SEE HERE'S THE GARAGE.
HERE'S THE SIDE YARD.
THERE'S JUST NOTHING NO PLACE
TO PUT ANY SOLAR PANELS IN THE
BACK.
HERE'S A ROOF PLAN SHOWING FIVE
PANELS ON THE THE NORTH ROOF
FACE AND FOUR PANELS ON THE S
ROOF FACE.
THEY ARE BLACK ON BLACK PANELS
WHICH IS APPROPRIATE AND THEY
ARE DOING SOME WORK ON THE
INTERIOR TO SISTER SOME OF THE
JOYS IN ORDER TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE THE THEY CAN CARRY THE LOAD
OF THE NEW PANELS.
IT STAMPED BY AN ENGINEER AND
THERE'S A LOT MORE INFORMATION
IN THE PACKET YOU WANT TO GET
INTO THE WEEDS OF OF SOLAR
PANEL INSTALLATION.
BUT FOR US I'VE ALREADY READ TO
SECRETARY INTERIOR STANDARD
NUMBER TWO AND NUMBER NINE AND
NUMBER TEN.
SO FROM THE GUIDELINES FOR
ROOFS IT'S RECOMMENDED TO
IDENTIFY, RETAIN AND PRESERVE
ROOFS AND FUNCTIONAL AND
DECORATIVE FEATURES THAT ARE
IMPORTANT IN DEFINING THE
OVERALL HISTORIC CHARACTER
OF THE BUILDING.
THIS INCLUDES THE ROOF SHAPE AS
WELL AS ITS SIZE, COLOR AND
PATTERNING.
IT'S NOT RECOMMENDED TO CHANGE
THE CONFIGURATION OF A ROOF BY
ADDING NEW FEATURES SUCH AS
DORMER WINDOWS, VENTS OR
SKYLIGHTS OF THE HISTORIC
CHARACTERS DIMINISHED.
SO REALLY THAT'S THE QUESTION
THAT'S BEING ASKED HERE WOULD
INSTALLING SOLAR PANELS
ESPECIALLY ON THE SOUTH FACING
ROOF DIMINISH ANY OF THE
CHARACTER OF THE HOUSE AND THE
ROOF FOR MECHANICAL SYSTEMS?
IT'S RECOMMENDED TO PROVIDE
ADEQUATE STRUCTURAL SUPPORT FOR
NEW MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT WHICH
THEY ARE DOING FROM THE ANN
ARBOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR SOLAR PANELS.
IT'S APPROPRIATE ABOUT SOLAR
PANELS AT GRADE OR ON GROUND
POOL MOUNTINGS THE ABSENCE
OF AN APPROPRIATE GROUND BASED
MELTING LOCATION PANEL SHOULD
BE MOUNTED ON SIDE OR REAR
FACING ROOF SURFACES.
IT'S ALSO APPROPRIATE TO
INSTALL MECHANICAL SERVICE
EQUIPMENT ON THE ROOF RELATED
TO THE SOLAR UNITS AND RELATED
DEVICES THAT ARE INCONSPICUOUS
FROM THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
AND DO NOT DAMAGE OR OBSCURE
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES.
I'LL GO BACK TO THIS IN A
MINUTE BUT THEY ARE PUTTING THE
METERING AND OTHER RELATED
STUFF ON THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
HOUSE SO THE BACK CORNER OF THE
HOUSE NOT THE VISIBLE SIDE.
LET'S SEE.
AND IT'S NOT APPROPRIATE TO
MOUNT SOLAR PANELS AND THEIR
RELATED DEVICES ON PRIMARY
ELEVATIONS ARE ROOFS THAT FACE
THE PRIMARY ELEVATION ON PLANES
THAT ARE HIGHLY VISIBLE FROM
THE STREET VIEW.
THIS LOCATION HAS THE HIGHEST
IMPACT ON THE HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING AND
ALL OTHER OPTIONS SHOULD BE
THOROUGHLY EXPLORED.
ALL RIGHT.
SO YEAH, HERE'S THE METER
CONNECTION STUFF GOING ON THE
BACK CORNER OF THE HOUSE
.
SO STEPS BEYOND THAT THE FIVE
PANELS THE NORTH THROUGH FACE
ARE INCICUOUS AND PUSHED
BACK AS FAR AS POSSIBLE FROM
FIFTH STREET.
THE FOUR PANELS ON THE SOUTH
ROOF WEST MADISON.
THEY'LL DEFINITELY BE VISIBLE
BUT IT'S A CORNER THAT'S VERY
SMALL.
THERE ARE LIMITED OPTIONS AND
STEPH BELIEVES THAT THE PANELS
WILL NOT BE A VISUAL
DISTRACTION FROM THE HISTORIC
HOUSE OR NEARBY PROPERTIES.
THE WORK IS EASILY REVERSIBLE
AND I REALLY THINK THAT IT'S
KEY THAT THEY'VE THEY'VE
THEY'VE PUSHED EVERYTHING TO
THE BACK.
SO YOU KNOW, WHEN YOU FIRST SEE
THE HOUSE THIS IS WHAT YOU SEE.
THIS IS THE FRONT HOUSE AND
YEAH, YOU'RE GOING TO SEE SOLAR
PANELS UP HERE.
BUT YOU KNOW THESE DAYS YOU SEE
SOLAR PANELS ALL OVER THE PLACE
AND I DON'T THINK THAT THEY'RE
AS AS INDISCREET AS MAYBE WHEN
THEY WERE NEW AND I DO
APPRECIATE THAT THE LIMITED THE
NUMBER OF PANELS EVEN THOUGH
IT'S THE SOUTH SIDE AND THAT'S
WHERE YOU WANT THEM AND PUSH
THEM BACK AS FAR AS POSSIBLE.
SO STEPH DOES SUPPORT THE
APPLICATION AND THINKS IT
SHOULD BE APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH, MISS
THATCHER.
OK, SO MYSELF AND COMMISSIONER
CAPLAN, WE'RE ON THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE.
I DON'T I MEAN THIS PICTURE
KIND OF DOES IT ALL.
I DON'T REALLY HAVE I DON'T
HAVE ANYTHING TO ADD.
I THINK IT'S I GUESS IF I HAD
TO CHOOSE BETWEEN A DORMER ON
THE SOUTH AND SOLAR PANELS I
MEAN IT'S NICE THAT THE DORMERS
THERE I GUESS YOU GOT TO TWO
BIG WINDOWS THAT YOU KNOW, YOU
WOULDN'T BE ABLE TO HAVE THOSE
TALL WINDOWS ON THAT SOUTH SIDE
WITHOUT THE DORMER.
RIGHT.
YOU'D HAVE SO THEY ARE GETTING
NICE DAYLIGHTING AND BEAUTIFUL
SUNSHINE COMING IN.
YOU KNOW IF THE DOOR WAS ON THE
NORTH YOU'D HAVE SOLAR PANELS
BUT IN THE NORTH FACING DORMER.
SO I DON'T KNOW COMMISSIONER
KAPLIN ANY ANYTHING TO ADD JUST
THE SAME THING THE YEAH THIS
WAS A HEAD SCRATCHER ABOUT WHY
THAT JUST PUT SOLAR PANELS
UNTIL WE GOT TO THIS CORNER AND
LOOKED ACROSS THE STREET AND
THEN ALL OF THOSE QUESTIONS
WERE ANSWERED SORT OF YEAH OH
THAT I SEE WHAT THEY'RE DOING
AND SO THAT MAKES MAKES PERFECT
SENSE TO ME.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK SO WE WILL NOW TALK TO THE
APPLICANTS.
SO IS THE APPLICANT HERE OR
THEY DO WE HAVE AN APPLICANT
LET'S PROMOTE THEM INTO THE
SAME ROOM IF THEY'RE THERE.
NO I DON'T THINK WE HAVE AN
APPLICANT.
OK, SO WE DON'T HAVE AN
APPLICANT FOR THIS HEARING.
SO DID ANY COMMISSIONERS HAVE A
QUESTION FOR THE APPLICANT IF
THERE WAS AN APPLICANT I'D BE
CURIOUS TO KNOW IF THERE WAS A
QUESTION.
NO, WE DIDN'T HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS ANYWAY SO THAT'S GOOD
.
LET'S GO RIGHT TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING THEN I WILL OPEN A
PUBLIC HEARING FOR THIS ITEM.
THIS IS FIVE FIVE TO FIFTH
STREET.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE CALLING IN
NOW?
YOU VERY GOOD.
I WILL NOW CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND WE'LL GO TO
COMMISSIONER MAKING A MOTION
PLEASE DO I HAVE A COMMISSIONER
WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION
AS COMMISSIONER SMITH THANK I'D
BE HAPPY TO AND I MOVE THAT THE
COMMISSION ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT FIVE FIFTY TO
FIFTH STREET CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO INSTALL
BLACK ON BLACK SOLAR ARRAY AS
PROPOSED TO WORK AS COMPATIBLE
IN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL RELATIONSHIP
TO THE REST OF THE BUILDING AND
THE SURROUNDING AREA.
MEET'S SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION
AND GUIDELINES FOR
REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TO NINE AND TEN IN
THE GUIDELINES FOR ROOFS ENERGY
EFFICIENCY MECHANICAL SYSTEMS
AS WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES PARTICULARLY AS THEY
PERTAIN TO SOLAR INSTALLATIONS
.
THANK YOU.
VERY GOOD.
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
SMITH AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER KIYONO.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
OK, GOOD.
I JUST HAVE A PHILOSOPHICAL
POINT.
I WOULD HAVE NO ISSUE AT ALL IF
IF SOLAR PANELS COVERED THE
ENTIRE S.
S ROOF.
THIS IS PERHAPS WHERE I DIFFER
FROM THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARD FOR SOLAR PANELS ON
HISTORIC BUILDINGS.
I THINK IT IS NOT A TREMENDOUS
COMPROMISE TO ADD SOLAR PANELS
TO A HISTORIC ROOF ON THIS
BUILDING.
I FIND IT A BIT CUMBERSOME THAT
AN APPLICANT HAS TO COME BEFORE
US, HAVE A PUBLIC HEARING, SLOW
EVERYTHING DOWN WHEN YOU KNOW
IN A RACE AS A COMMUNITY WE'VE
SAID THAT WE WANT TO GET TO
CARBON NEUTRALITY AND THIS IS A
BIG PART OF IT AND EVERY HURDLE
THAT WE THROW UP AS AS A
COMMUNITY MEANS HAPPENS THAT
MUCH SLOWER.
SO I THINK THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT WE SHOULD LOOK AT IN IN
OUR OWN GUIDELINES AND PERHAPS
GIVE MISS THATCHER A LITTLE
MORE LEEWAY TO JUST GO AHEAD
AND ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVE
THESE THINGS AND NOT HOLD UP
THESE INSTALLATIONS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT
COMMENT.
I WILL SAY THAT IF IF THE
INSTALLATION IS NOT STREET
RACING THEN MISS THATCHER DOES
HAVE THAT AUTHORITY WHICH IS
GREAT.
IT'S ONLY WHEN THERE'S A STREET
FACING APPLICATION LIKE THE
FACE, RIGHT?
YEAH.
YEAH BUT I STILL GET THAT YOU
STILL SHOULD YES.
SO THAT IS SOMETHING WE COULD
TALK ABOUT AT OUR RETREAT
PERHAPS.
I KNOW
WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT
THAT PREVIOUSLY BUT IT JUST
SEEMS LIKE WE'RE WE'RE GROWING
YOU KNOW LIKE WE JUST WANT TO
KEEP PUSHING THOSE GUIDELINES
SO THAT IT'S EASIER AND EASIER
TO GET SOLAR PANELS.
NOW THE COMMISSION HAS SEEN ONE
SOLAR INSTALLATION THAT FACES
THE FRONT MIDLAKE AND YOU'VE
SEEN ONE THAT FACES A CORNER
STREET WHICH IS KIND OF THE
ONLY TWO KINDS THERE ARE YEAH.
SO YOU'VE SEEN IT ALL BUT YEAH
,I'D BE HAPPY TO TO TALK ABOUT
THAT AT THREE.
YEAH.
ORDERING A MEETING VERY GOOD.
AND I AGREE WITH YOU IN I THINK
IT IS MAYBE CASE BY CASE THOUGH
WHICH DOES MAKE THAT DIFFICULT
FOR FIRST STAFF BUT WHEN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A ROOF THAT IT
DOESN'T HAVE THE ORIGINAL
MATERIALS ON IT ANYWAY THE
HISTORIC MATERIALS OF THE ROOF
ARE GONE AND WE DON'T EXPECT
HOMEOWNERS TO REPLACE THE OLD
WOOD SHINGLES WITH WELL THEY'RE
NOT THERE ANYMORE SO YOU KNOW,
THEY DON'T THEY DON'T HAVE TO
REPLACE ASPHALT SHINGLES WITH
WOOD SHAKES OR SOMETHING IF
THAT'S WHAT WAS THERE.
SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUT PUTTING
SOMETHING ON TOP OF SOMETHING
THAT'S NOT A HISTORIC MATERIAL
ANYWAY AND I AGREE THAT THAT
IT'S IT'S AS MUCH ALIGNING OUR
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES WITH
WHAT OUR GOALS AND VISIONS ARE
AS A COMMUNITY AGREED THERE ARE
A LOT OF OTHER ITEMS WHERE IT'S
IN CONFLICT SO WE HAVE TO TAKE
ALL THOSE OUT A CASE BY CASE
BASIS.
BUT I LIKE THE DIRECTION THAT
YOU'RE PUSHING US SO VERY GOOD
.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT HAS ANY
IMPACT ON THIS.
WE YOU KNOW, WE JUST I GUESS
VOTING ON THE APPLICATION AT
HAND AND THEN WE HAVE THIS SIDE
DISCUSSION.
SO LET'S LET'S GET TO THAT VOTE
UNLESS THERE'S ANY OTHER
COMMENTS I DON'T SEE ANY SO ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THIS MOTION
PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED.
PLEASE SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
MAKE SURE YOU GET THAT BUILDING
PERMIT.
OH THEY'RE ALREADY IN BELIEVE
ME THEY'RE THERE AND WAITING ON
YOU.
CAN WE CALL RIGHT NOW AND LET
THEM KNOW IT'S BEEN APPROVED
UNTIL TOMORROW MORNING?
YES.
THAT'S HOW IT WORKS.
GOOD.
LET'S GET THOSE ELECTRONS
SENDING ELECTRONS INTO THE GRID
.
VERY NICE.
OK, SO MOVING ALONG WE'RE GOING
TO F THREE.
THAT IS THE HEARING FOR TEN
THIRTY FOR WEST LIBERTY.
MR. THATCHER, WILL YOU PLEASE
GIVE THE STAFF REPORT?
YES.
THIS IS A ONE AND THREE QUARTER
STORY BUNGALOW THAT FEATURES A
STUCCOED FIRST FLOOR SHINGLES
ON THE SECOND LA CROSSE GABLED
ROOF PLAN AND A FORWARD
STUCCOED FRONT PORCH WITH THE
WALLS FLANKING THE FRONT STAIRS
FIRST APPEARS IN PARK CITY
DIRECTORIES IN EIGHTEEN
NINETEEN AS THE HOME OF LUCY
AND GEORGE HER GEORGE WAS A
PARTNER IN LYNDON SCHMIDT APPLE
AND COMPANY CLOTHIERS TWO OR
NINE S MAIN HOUSE HAD A
DETACHED GARAGE IN NINETEEN
THIRTY ONE THAT IS NO LONGER
PRESENT IN 2013 THE APPLICATION
WAS APPROVED TO REPLACE THE
SLATE ROOF WITH AN ASPHALT ROOF
TWENTY TWENTY ONE AN
APPLICATION FOR GASMIER WAS
APPROVED THIS HOUSE IS ON THE
NORTH SIDE OF WEST LIBERTY EAST
OF EBRIGHT WHITE BOULEVARD AND
WEST OF EIGHTH STREET AND BACKS
UP TO SLOSSON MIDDLE SCHOOL.
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING HGC
APPROVAL AT A TWO STORY REAR
EDITION WITH A WALK OUT
BASEMENT, A REAR DECK AND THREE
SKYLIGHTS ON THE ADDITIONS ROOF
.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS THIS HOUSE HAS A LOT
OF TRIM, A LOT OF COOL EHV
OVERHANGS.
IT'S GOT THESE BARGE BOARDS.
IT'S IT'S GOT MOLDINGS.
THE SUFFIT ARE ARE LIKE BEAD
BOARD AND IT'S ON A FAIRLY
NARROW BUT DEEP LOT AND YOU CAN
SEE YOU CAN'T SEE SO MUCH ROOM
HERE BUT YOU CAN SEE BETTER
FROM HERE THAT THERE'S A
SIGNIFICANT TO THE BACKYARD.
THIS IS PROBABLY A SIX FOOT
DROP FROM THE HOUSE TO WHERE
I'M STANDING TAKING THE PICTURE
.
THERE'S SO MUCH TRIM UP HERE IN
FACT THAT THEY HAD TO BRACE IT
WITH THESE LITTLE METAL
BRACKETS ON EITHER SIDE WHICH I
HADN'T EVEN NOTICED UNTIL ONE
OF THE COMMISSIONERS POINTED
OUT TO ME AND THE APPLICATION
IS TO PUT AN ADDITION ON THE
BACK TWO STORIES STRAIGHT OFF
AND TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE
TO DIG DOWN A LITTLE BIT.
WE TALKED TO THE HOMEOWNER
ABOUT INQUIRING HOW MUCH THAT
WOULD ACTUALLY BE FROM THE
ARCHITECT BUT TO BASICALLY
INSERT EIGHTEEN INCHES AND GO
BACK YOU'LL NOTICE THAT THERE
ARE VERY COOL ORIGINAL WINDOWS
SIX OVER ONE EIGHT OVER ONE TEN
OVER ONE YOU NAME IT.
THIS HOUSE HAS AND IT ALSO HAS
THIS ROW OF THREE FIXED WINDOWS
PIANO WINDOW STYLE.
THIS IS WHERE YOU MIGHT PUT
YOUR PIANO OR YOUR BUFFET
UNDERNEATH THESE WINDOWS.
THAT'S WHY THEY WERE HIGHER.
YOU OFTEN SEE THEM ON THE BACKS
OF THESE NINETEEN TEENS AND
TWENTIES HOUSES.
THIS BACK PORCH THERE'S THERE'S
NOTHING HISTORIC ABOUT IT.
THIS IS ALL NEW MATERIALS THE
ROOF, THE POSTS, THE DECK
NOTHING SIGNIFICANTLY HISTORIC
THERE.
THIS IS JUST A SHOT LOOKING UP
THE OTHER SIDE PRETTY CLOSE TO
THE LINE.
THERE'S ALSO THERE'S A MATCHING
GABLE THERE'S A CROSS GABLE
HOUSE.
THERE'S A MATCHING GABLE ON
THIS SIDE AS WELL LOOKING TO
THE EAST BOTH THE HOUSES NEXT
DOOR HAVE LARGE RARE ADDITIONS
.
I THINK THAT THESE LOOK WIDER
THAN THIS ONE ESPECIALLY AND
PERHAPS IT IS BECAUSE
EVERYTHING'S LOADED ON THIS
SIDE.
THIS IS AN ANGLE THAT MAKES IT
LOOK PARTICULARLY GIANT AND ONE
OF THE TWO OF THESE WAS PRETTY
RECENT THROUGH THE HGC LIKE IN
THE LAST FIVE YEARS ON THE WEST
SIDE THERE ARE A ROW OF HOUSES
THAT DO NOT HAVE ADDITIONS ON
THE BACK.
THERE ARE FENCES IN BETWEEN
HERE.
MOVING ON TO THE DRAWINGS, ONE
THING I'D LIKE TO POINT OUT
BEFORE WE GET VERY FAR IS TO
SEE HOW THIS IS DRAWN AS A IS A
VERY HEAVY SIGNIFICANT BAND
HERE AND IT KIND OF ISN'T IF
YOU GO BACK SEE HOW THERE IS A
FLARE HERE.
BUT IT'S REALLY ONLY FROM THE
THIRD COURSE OF SHINGLES DOWN
TO THE BOTTOM OF COURSE
OF SHINGLES.
THAT'S A COMMON CRAFTSMAN
FEATURE OF THIS TIME BUT IT'S
REALLY NOT AS HEAVY AS YOU
KNOW, THE DRAWING DEPICTS.
SO I DIDN'T WANT TO BE CONFUSED
BY THAT PROPOSAL TO PUT THIS
EDITION ON THE BACK AND IT
WOULD HAVE A LITTLE ENTRY ROOM
,A DECK OFF THE BACK AND THEN
A WALK OUT BASEMENT UNDERNEATH
.
THERE ARE SKYLIGHTS ON BOTH
SIDES.
WE'LL GET TO THAT IN A SECOND
EXISTING BASEMENT KIND OF COOL
THAT THERE ARE ROOMS UNDERNEATH
THE FRONT PORCH.
YOU DON'T ALWAYS SEE THAT
EXISTING PORCH AND DECK OFF THE
BACK OF THE KITCHEN UPSTAIRS
BEDROOM BUT YOUR BEDROOM THE
PROPOSED BASEMENT IS TO ADD OUR
REC ROOM.
THAT'S THE FOUNDATION OF THE
ADDITION.
THEN THERE'S COVERED PATIO.
THIS IS THE WALK OUT PART
OF THE BASEMENT HAS A SLIDER.
THIS IS A MASONRY WALL THAT IS
CONTINUED.
IT'S AT THIS POINT IT'S NOT A
WEIGHT BEARING WALL.
IT'S JUST A WALL, YOU KNOW,
LIKE A PRIVACY WALL OR MAYBE
PERHAPS TO HOLD EARTH BACK
SINCE THIS IS A SLOPED LOT THEN
WE HAVE THE PROPOSED FIRST
FLOOR PLAN.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THERE'S A
KITCHEN HERE AND THESE ARE THE
PIANO WINDOWS THAT WOULD BE
REMOVED AND THEN WE'VE GOT A
DECK OFF THE BACK.
IT IS SIGNIFICANTLY INSET ON
THE CORNERS WHICH IS VERY MUCH
APPRECIATED ON THE SECOND FLOOR
THERE'S NEW BEDROOM IN THE
ADDITION OF TO DIFFERENTIATE
THE ADDITION FROM THE CURRENT
HOUSE THEY DO HAVE THE THE THE
INCH ON THE CORNERS THEN
INSTEAD OF USING STUCCO ALL THE
WAY ACROSS THEY'VE PROPOSED TO
FOUR INCH EXPOSURE CEDAR SIDING
ON THE MAIN FLOOR THOUGH
KEEPING THE CEDAR SHINGLES ON
THE UPPER FLOOR.
THERE'S A LARGE COAT ON THE NEW
BASEMENT WALL THAT'LL BE
COMPATIBLE WITH THE STUCCO.
YOU'LL NOTICE THOUGH THAT THE
ROOF FRIDGE IS CONTINUO US IT'S
ALMOST CUT OFF ON THE SCREEN.
I'M SORRY IF YOU CAN'T SEE THAT
BUT THERE'S THERE'S NOT IT
DOESN'T DIP DOWN AS WE USUALLY,
YOU KNOW, INSIST UPON FOR
SECOND FLOOR ADDITIONS AND HERE
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE ROOF ENDS
HERE AND HERE'S THE INSET FROM
THE CORNERS BUT THE ROOF RIDGE
IS THE SAME RIDGE.
SO WE TALKED TO THE HOMEOWNER A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT IT AND WE'RE
HOPING TO HEAR FROM THE
ARCHITECT ABOUT WHETHER THERE
IS SOMETHING THAT MAKES THAT,
YOU KNOW, A REQUIREMENT IN
ORDER TO MAKE THAT NEW
ADDITIONS FOR HABITABLE OR IF
IT WAS JUST THE WAY IT WAS
DESIGNED AND WHETHER OR NOT IT
CAN BE LOWERED DOWN BELOW THAT
BRIDGEPORT PROPOSED WEST
ELEVATION A COUPLE OF SKYLIGHTS
.
HERE'S THAT LITTLE BUMP OUT
ENTRYWAY.
IT'S GOT ONE WINDOW ON THIS
SIDE AND HERE'S THAT WALL
THAT'S LIKE FIVE CIGALE EARTH
RETAINING WALL.
SOME RENDERINGS AGAIN BE A
LITTLE MORE GRADUAL THAN SHOWS
BUT IT IS SIGNIFICANTLY THAT'S
PROBABLY THE MOST PROMINENT
VIEW FROM SORT OF THE BACK
OF THE YARD.
THE THE LOWER POINT ONE
DISCREPANCY IS THAT THE ON THE
DRAWINGS THE RAILING IS STAINED
WOOD RAILINGS ON A TREX DECK
BUT ALSO IN THE PACKET THERE
WAS THIS CLASSIC COMPOSITE
SERIES RAILING SO WE A LITTLE
BIT OF CLARIFICATION ON WHETHER
THEY'RE USING THE WOOD OR THE
COMPOSITE CEILING.
I REALLY DON'T HAVE AN OPINION
EITHER WAY.
I THINK THAT EITHER ONE WOULD
BE APPROPRIATE FOR A BACK DECK
BUT I JUST LIKE CLARIFICATION
ON WHICH ONE I'D LIKE TO USE
AND THE TRICK DECKING WHICH IS
FINE AND APPROPRIATE ON A BACK
DECK.
SO I HAVE READ TO ALL THE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES
ALREADY SO I'M NOT GOING TO GO
THROUGH THOSE AGAIN AND LET ME
SEE IF I MISSED ANYTHING HERE.
THE HOUSE IS CURRENTLY THIRTEEN
HUNDRED AND FORTY TWO SQUARE
FEET.
THE PROPOSED EDITION IS 310
SQUARE FEET DOWNSTAIRS TWO
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FIVE
UPSTAIRS THAT IS AN INCREASE
OF 44 PERCENT FROM THE ORIGINAL
FLOOR AREA.
THE FOOTPRINT IS CURRENTLY SIX
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY ONE SQUARE
FEET.
THE INCREASE IS THREE HUNDRED
AND TEN SQUARE FEET OR FORTY
SIX PERCENT SO THAT IS WITHIN
THE GUIDELINES WHICH WHICH SAY
THAT YOU SHOULD KEEP IT AT
FIFTY PERCENT.
I THINK THAT'S ABOUT ALL THAT I
HAVE WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF WANTING TO HEAR MORE ABOUT
THE ROOF RIDGE STAFF RECOMMEND
THINGS AT ALL.
THE OTHER PROPOSED WORK IS
APPROPRIATE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH MISS
THATCHER.
SO NOW WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORTS.
COMMISSIONER CAPLAN, YOU WANT
TO GIVE LET US KNOW I I JUST
THINK THAT WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF THE ROOF RIDGE THE YOU KNOW,
A LOT OF WHAT IS BEING ADDED
HERE WAS USING THE DROP IN
GRADE SORT OF HIDE IT.
SO I THOUGHT THAT WAS AN
EFFECTIVE WAY TO NOT HAVE WHAT
THEY'RE BRINGING TO THE HOUSE
OVERPOWER WHAT'S ALREADY THERE
.
THANK YOU.
OK, SO THE WHEN YOU'RE IN THE
BACKYARD THE NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE
TO THE LEFT THAT YOU SHOW TWO
OF THEM THE CLOSEST ONE THAT
HOUSE HAD THE THE GABLE.
SO THE EVE WAS FACING THE
STREET IN THE HOUSE IN THIS
APPLICATION THE GABLES FACING
THE STREET THEY LOOK VERY
SIMILAR.
BUT YOU CAN IMAGINE HOW IF THE
EVE IS FACING THE STREET IT'S A
MUCH WIDER HOUSE TO THE STREET.
SO THE ADDITION WAS IT LOOKS
WIDE BECAUSE IT'S WIDE.
IT COULD BE BECAUSE OF THE FACT
THAT THE THE HOUSE IS ROTATED
THIS HOUSE WITH THE GABLE
FACING THE STREET IT DOES HAVE
THE CROSS GABLE BUT THEN
THERE'S THE GABLE RETURNS AND
SO THAT'S WHY IT'S IT'S
NARROWER THE THE THE LANDED
AWAY FROM THE SIDEWALK DOWN
FROM THE SIDEWALK QUITE A BIT
IT AND THEN IT SLOPES OFF EVEN
MORE LIKE IF IT GOES BACK TO
SLOSSON I THINK SO IT GOES DOWN
QUITE A BIT AT THE END OF THE
PROPERTY BUT KIND OF AND THE
THE IT FEELS QUITE DEEP.
SO THE YOU KNOW THIS IS LIKE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ADDITION
AND A SIZABLE DECK BUT THE
PROPERTY WAS QUITE DEEP.
IT FELT DEEP ENOUGH BUT I DON'T
KNOW IF IT FELT LIKE IT'S
SLOPED LOW ENOUGH TO HAVE THE
THE WALK OUT BASEMENT.
WE WANTED SOME MORE EXPLANATION
FOR FOR HOW HOW MUCH KIND
OF DIGGING AND REGRADING WILL
HAVE TO HAPPEN FOR THAT BECAUSE
IT JUST SEEMED HARD TO IMAGINE
THAT BEING INSTALLED WITHOUT A
LOT OF EARTHWORK THERE.
>> LET'S SEE.
GREAT.
OK, SO THOSE ARE MY NOTES FOR
THE REVIEW COMMITTEE.
LET'S MOVE ON TO THE
APPLICANT'S COMMENTS.
SO I SEE WE HAVE THE APPLICANT
HERE, HIRAMAN, WOULD YOU PLEASE
JUST PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD WAS NOT
DOING THAT IN EARLIER HEARINGS.
I HOPE WE'RE OK WITH THAT AND
DON'T GET IN TOO MUCH TROUBLE
BUT PLEASE ARE IN YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND THEN
LET US KNOW YOU'VE GOT FIVE
MINUTES BUT JUST GIVE US ANY
COMMENTS.
OH, WE HAVE MICHAEL WITH US AS
WELL.
SO PLEASE BOTH OF YOU INTRODUCE
YOURSELVES AND PLEASE COMMENT
ON ALL THE QUESTIONS THAT
YOU'VE HEARD SO FAR.
THANK NEXT TO YOU.
YOU MY NAME IS OUR HER OPTION
TEN THIRTY FOUR WEST LIBERTY
AND MIKE GO AHEAD.
I CONTRACT TWO TERMS OFF
CORBINO RIGHT.
SO THANKS FOR THE TIME AND
COMING AND VISITING US AND ALL
THE WORK YOU'VE DONE JAYLON
TEAM ON THIS HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD HERE OTHER THAN WE DID TALK
ABOUT THE ROOFLINES SO WE'LL
DEFER TO MIKE WE'RE OPEN TO
EITHER WAY HERE BUT THERE WAS A
REASON FOR IT SO I JUMP IN.
OH YEAH.
LET'S START WITH THE RIDGE LINE
WE HAD ORIGINALLY AS JOEL CAN
TESTS THAT WE ORIGINALLY HAD
THAT DOWN 10 INCHES OF WATER SO
AND THEN IN KIND OF ENHANCING
AND MASSAGING THE SECTION
OF THIS BUILDING IN THAT MASTER
SUITE THE PRIMARY SUITE
UPSTAIRS IT'S COME DOWN TO KIND
OF IT ALWAYS DOES IT COMES DOWN
KIND OF A GAME OF INCHES AND
YOU KNOW, IF YOU'RE TRYING TO
GET PROPER CLEARANCES OVER
TOILET THINGS LIKE THIS, WE ALL
KNOW IT CAN COME DOWN TO AN
INCH OR TWO.
SO I SAID WELL WHAT IF WE RAISE
IT BACK UP?
THAT GETS US COMPLETELY TO
CLEAR WE CAN PRETTY MUCH DO
WHAT WE NEED UP THERE.
SINCE THEN WE'VE MET WITH THE
CONTRACTOR IN THE RESPONSE TO
AFTER YOUR VISIT AND KIND
OF LOOKING AT IT TOGETHER AND I
DO THINK WE WOULD I MEAN
ESTHETICALLY OUTWARD I'D LIKE
TO LOWER THAT TO THE WORKS
BETTER AND I THINK WE KIND
OF CAME INTO A NICE HAPPY
MEDIUM THAT WOULD BE PROBABLY
PULLING IT DOWN ABOUT EIGHT
INCHES EIGHT TO TEN INCHES
MAYBE TO KEEP THAT LARGE BORE
THAT JOEL MENTIONED SOME
OF THAT INTACT VISUALITY AND
THEN PUT THE ADDITION UP TO
THAT.
SO I THINK IF THAT'S ACCEPTABLE
TO COME DOWN ABOUT EIGHT INCHES
INSTEAD OF A LEAF THERE, THAT'S
WHAT WE PLAN ON DOING AND THAT
KEEPS US UP FOR CLEARANCES HAD
HIGHER CLEARANCES AND ALSO
ADDRESSES THE ESTHETIC.
GREAT.
THANKS FOR THAT EXPLANATION.
CAN YOU ALSO I GUESS JUST JUST
KEEP GOING ON THE OTHER SORT
MEANTIME AND WE HEARD WHICH WAS
THE THE THE WALK OUT BASEMENT
AREA AND JUST LET US KNOW KIND
OF WHAT WHAT DO YOU NEED TO DO
IN TERMS OF EARTHWORK FOR THAT
IF ANY OR AGAIN TO BE MET WITH
THE CONTRACTOR AND TRY TO
PINPOINT WHEN YOU WERE OF LINE
AND TRY AND FIGURE GOT INTO A
ROUGH ESTIMATE OF HOW MUCH
OBVIOUSLY MORE EARTH WILL HAVE
TO BE TAKEN OUT AND THAT IT'LL
BE BUILT BACK UP OBVIOUSLY WITH
THE GRAVEL AND A SLAB ON GRADE
UNDERNEATH THE DECK BUT
FINISHED MATERIALS GIVE OR TAKE
WE FIGURE WE'RE GOING TO BE
ABOUT AT THE VERY END OF THAT
DECK ABOUT TWO TO TWO AND A
HALF FEET DOWN.
SO HAVE A RETAINING WALL AND A
SHORT ONE.
WE'RE THE STAIRS AND THEN WE'D
LIKE TO DO THAT FULL WALL ON
THE ON THE WEST SIDE.
SO IT DOES IT'S AN INDENTATION
IN THE GROUND FURTHER.
OK, BUT THE WHOLE IMPETUS FOR
THIS WAS THAT WHAT THE AND IT
COULD BE A GREAT OPPORTUNITY TO
OPEN UP THAT BACK AND REALLY,
YOU KNOW, GIVE PROPERTY AND A
NICE SET OF WINDOWS AND SLIDING
DOOR TO REALLY OPEN UP THAT
THAT SPACE, YOU KNOW, TO THE
BACKYARD AND SO IT WAS FIVE AND
A HALF FEET OR SO I THINK THE
HOUSE ALL THE WAY DOWN TO ABOUT
TWO AND A HALF FEET MAX, CAN I
SHOW YOU THAT PICTURE REAL
QUICK AND SHOW US A PICTURE
STAFF'S GOING TO SHOW US A
PICTURE HERE.
THANKS FOR THAT EXPLANATION,
MICHAEL.
SO MIKE IS THIS THE RETAINING
WALL DOWN HERE?
YES, TO THE TO YUSAF.
YEAH, OK.
OK, YEAH YEAH.
THE LEVEL OF THE SLIDE BELOW
YES.
WOULD BE AT THE VERY BOTTOM
OF THAT OK RUNNING BACK TOWARDS
US.
YEAH OK THANK YOU
.
GREAT OK QUICK COMMENT ON THE
RAILINGS ON THE BACK DECK THAT
WAS THE OTHER THING WE HEARD
THERE WAS A QUESTION STAINED
WOOD LAST DAY WE GOT ABOUT I
FIGURED THAT WOULD BE COOL
BECAUSE THE DRAWINGS IN THE
RENDERINGS EVERYTHING SHOWING
WAS MORE MODERN AND HORIZONTAL
AND THAT WAS THE ORIGINAL KIND
OF CONCEPT AT THE LAST MINUTE
WE'RE THROWING MATERIALS I PUT
IN THE MORE TRADITIONAL
VERTICAL SYSTEM AND KIND
OF WORKED THAT OUT THERE ALMOST
ON PURPOSE AS A EITHER OR
SITUATION AND IT'S NICE TO HEAR
THAT THE STAFF THINKS THAT
EITHER ONE WOULD BE FINE SO
HOMEOWNERS JUST RECENTLY TOLD
ME OUR MEMBERS TOLD ME THAT
PROBABLY THE MORE HORIZONTAL I
MEAN THE MORE VERTICAL
COMPOSITE REALLY WOULD BE THE
ROUTE THEY WANT TO GO.
SO CONTRARY TO THE RENDERINGS
OF DRAWINGS MAY BE INDECISIVE
GROUP BECAUSE THEY WERE
THINKING
OVER OUR HEADS ON THIS
PROCESS THAT ONE MIGHT FLAG
THAT FOR ME
.
TWO HOURS AGO I THOUGHT GOSH,
WE HAVEN'T EVEN THOUGHT ABOUT
THAT YET.
SO THEY EAT ON THAT AND BE IN
CLOSE CONTACT WITH YOU ALL
THROUGHOUT THE PROCESS TO MAKE
SURE WHAT WE'RE DOING THERE
MAKES SENSE IF YOU CHANGE YOUR
MINDS, YOU KNOW WHEN IT'S TIME
TO BUILD THE RAILING, JUST LET
ME KNOW.
WE CAN PROBABLY STAFF APPROVE
SOMETHING ELSE THAT GO BACK.
YOU IF I HAD A QUESTION BACK TO
THE BACK TO THE I GUESS THE THE
WALK OUT BASEMENT AREA ON THE
WEST SIDE THERE APPEARS TO BE A
VERY TALL MASON OR CONCRETE
WALL ON THAT SIDE.
YOU DESCRIBED ON THE NORTH SIDE
THERE'S GOING TO BE A WALL IT'S
LIKE TWO AND A HALF FEET HIGH
AND THEN ON THE EAST SIDE
THERE'S GOING TO BE A WALL THAT
GOES FROM TWO AND A HALF TO
FIVE FEET, SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
BUT ON THE ON THE WEST SIDE THE
WALL IS I GUESS AS HIGH AS THE
ADDITIONS FOUNDATION WALL.
AND I'M JUST CURIOUS WHY THAT
WHY THERE IS A CONCRETE WALL
THERE.
IT'S IT'S A DESIGN RESPONSE.
I GUESS TO GIVE SOME MORE
PRIVACY TO THAT YOU'VE GOT THE
STAIR GOING UP AND THINGS KIND
OF WANT TO FACE OUT TO THE
DRIVEWAY.
THAT'S WHERE THE FAMILY ROL
UP INTO THE DRIVEWAY.
THEY'RE IN BEHIND THE
HOUSE.
THERE'S NO LONGER A GARAGE AND
THAT KIND OF OPENS TO THE TO
THE BACKYARD AND DOWN THE HILL
,YOU KNOW, SLOSSON HILL AREA
AND IN DESIGNING THIS I THOUGHT
IT WOULD BE A KIND OF A NICE
POSSIBILITY TO GET I GUESS SOME
PRIVACY.
NOT THAT THERE'S A TALL FENCE
RIGHT THERE.
IT'S NOT THAT WE'RE LOOKING
RIGHT INTO THE WESTERN YARD
THERE BUT TO JUST KIND OF MAKE
THAT A LITTLE BIT MORE QUAINT.
YOU CAN SEE THE TREES DOWN
THERE AND IF THIS WERE TO TURN
INTO AN IN-LAW SUITE OR
SOMETHING THAT THAT WOULD BE A
LITTLE BIT MORE PRIVATE AS
OPPOSED TO BEING OPEN AND ALL
THREE.
SO YES, IT WOULD HAVE TO BE
LOWERED TO YOU COULD STEP DOWN.
IT COULD BE ABOUT FIVE AND A
HALF FEET OF PROBABLY ADDITION
AND THEN KIND OF TAPER DOWN
FOLLOWING THE CONTOURS OF THE
WAY.
BUT WE COULD PROBABLY RUN THAT
IN FIVE FOOT INCREMENTS WHERE
IT STEPS DOWN.
YOU 16 18 INCHES EACH TIME ON
BOTH SIDES THAT SOCIETY THAT
HAS A METAL WALKWAY IN THE
FENCE RIGHT UP AGAINST THAT
OVER THERE.
SO KIND OF FLEXIBLE A LITTLE
BIT ON THAT BUT THERE'S NO
VISIBILITY TO THAT AREA.
VERY GOOD.
THANKS FOR THAT EXPLANATION.
SO ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT HERE DURING THIS
MOMENT OF MINOR CLARIFICATION?
GREAT.
SO IN THE ELEVATION DRAWINGS IT
CALLS OUT THE NEW SIDE THE
CEDAR SHAKES SINGLE SHINGLES ON
THE SECOND FLOOR.
AND I WAS JUST CURIOUS IS THE
INTENT TO MATCH THE EXISTING ON
THE THE MAIN PART OF THE HOUSE
THE I ASSUME YOU'RE NOT DOING
ANYTHING TO THE EXISTING
SHINGLES.
IT'S JUST THE THE GRAPHICS LOOK
A LITTLE BIGGER.
WHAT'S THERE NOW?
YES.
THANK YOU FOR SAYING THAT.
THAT'S THAT'S ALSO KIND
OF ANOTHER, YOU KNOW,
CONVERSATION WITH THE
CONTRACTOR AND THE HOMEOWNER
AND YOU KNOW, IDEALLY IT COULD
IT WOULD BE ABLE TO BE APPROVED
AT LEAST AT THE STAFF LEVEL UP
UNTIL, YOU KNOW, PERMANENT TIME
IF THAT'S GOING TO BE EITHER A
HEARTY SIXING AND A HEARTY MORE
CLEVER UNSIGHTED OR THEATER
GOING TO BE PREFERRED TO
REQUIRE.
YEAH, THE IDEA WOULD BE TO GET
THE EXPOSURE SOMEWHAT RIGHT.
BUT IF IT IS A HARDY SHINGLE
IT'S GOING TO IT IS GOING TO BE
DIFFERENT EVEN IF IT'S PAINTED
THE SAME COLOR AND YOU KNOW
THAT WOULD BE THE PREFERRED
METHODOLOGY I WAS THE ARCHITECT
FOR THE ONE TO GO DOWN AND
THERE'S A DIFFERENTIATION BUT A
FAMILIARITY BETWEEN THE THE
HARD SHINGLE AND THE EXISTING
CEDAR SHINGLES.
SO I GUESS I'LL BE TO KIND
OF MAKE IT LOOK SOMEWHAT
COMPATIBLE BUT NOT A RIP OFF
OF THIS IS WHAT I'M TRYING TO
SAY THAT SUMS UP THE STANDARDS
VERY WELL.
YEAH.
ANYTHING ELSE OK THAT WAS GREAT
.
JUST A REMINDER THAT AS WITH
THE GUARDRAILS ON THE BACK DECK
YOU REALLY NEED TO CHOOSE ONE
FOR SO IF YOU WANT TO GO WITH
CEDAR FOR NOW THAT WOULD BE
GREAT AND IF YOU NEED TO MOVE
TO SOMETHING ELSE LATER WE CAN
TALK ABOUT IT OR YOU CAN FLIP
THEM RIGHT NOW FIVE SECONDS TO
ANSWER THE QUESTION ARE I'LL
LET YOU FINAL DECISION.
I WOULD LEAN TOWARD PUBLIC GET
THAT WASN'T THAT EASY.
THANK YOU.
BYE BYE.
GETTING THE DECISIONS DONE THIS
IS GREAT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT LOOKING THIS WAY?
NOTHING.
OK, VERY GOOD.
OK SO WE HAVE NO OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT SO
NOW WE'LL MOVE
.
SO THIS IS THE PUBLIC HEARING
NOW FOR TEN THIRTY FOR US
LIBERTY I WILL OPEN THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND WE'VE GOT NO ONE
CALLING AND NO ONE COMING TO
THE PODIUM HERE SO I'LL CLOSE
THE PUBLIC HEARING AND I'LL ASK
IF THERE'S A COMMISSIONER WHO
WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A MOTION ON
THIS APPLICATION.
MR. FORTNER, THANK YOU.
ALTHOUGH I'D LIKE TO ASK IF WE
WANT YOU KNOW, WE'VE HAD THREE
MADE THREE DECISIONS DO WE WANT
TO INCLUDE THOSE IN THE MOTION?
I MOST CONCERNED ABOUT THAT
ROOFLINE.
YES, WE WANT TO WIN CERTAINLY.
YES.
YOU SHOULD INCLUDE THAT AND AS
SOMETHING TO BE REVIEWED BY
STAFF BEFORE PERMITS ARE ISSUED
.
AND YOU SHOULD ALSO INCLUDE THE
COMPOSITE DECORATING OK
SHINGLES TOO.
WELL, THEY'RE GOING TO STICK
WITH WHAT SHOW?
NO, NO I DON'T THINK SO.
I KNOW THE SHINGLES ARE SHOWN
AS CEDAR AND THEY ARE
PREFERRING THE HARDY HERMAN DID
DID YOU I MEAN DID YOU SAY YOU
WANTED TO MOVE TO HARDY?
I THOUGHT YOU SAID GO WITH
WHAT'S THERE I DID I
MISUNDERSTAND.
I THINK I THINK WE'VE SETTLED
ON THE DEPOSIT BUT COMPOSITED
GOT IT.
OK, OK.
MY NEIGHBORS ARE TUNING IN ARE
ALSO ASKING ABOUT A SHARED HOT
TUB AND DO YOU KEEP THAT UP.
WOW.
BUT THEY ARE SITTING THERE
WATCHING RIGHT NOW.
OH GOOD.
SO WE'RE ADDING COMPOSITE REAL
INCOME OPPOSITE SHINGLES
SHINGLES AND IF IF WE WERE TO
WORD THIS TO SAY THAT THE ROOF
LINE OF THE ADDITIONS WOULD BE
LOWERED TO FIT UNDER THE BARGE
BOARD OF THE EXISTING REAR
GABLE, WOULD YOU BE COMFORTABLE
WITH THAT?
IT'S GOING TO BE TECHNICALLY
IT'S GOING TO BE ABOUT HALF WAY
.
WHAT I HEARD IS EIGHT WORDS OK?
YEAH I 12 SO IT'S GOING TO BE
AT LEAST AT LEAST EIGHT TO
LOWER EIGHT TO TEN INCHES.
ARE WE DONE WITH THAT?
OK, OK.
OR YOU CAN SAY AT LEAST A AND
THAT I MEAN BECAUSE EIGHT TO
TEN IS THE SAME BASICALLY LEAST
EIGHT FOR AT LEAST EIGHT INCHES
BELOW AVERAGE.
YEAH YEAH OK LET'S GIVE THIS A
TRY.
I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TEN THIRTY FOR
WEST LIBERTY A CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT TO ADD A TWO
STORY RARE EDITION WITH THREE
SKYLIGHTS A WALKOUT BASEMENT
AND A REAR DECK APPLICATION IS
AMENDED TO SPECIFY THAT THE
REAR RAILINGS WILL BE VERTICAL
COMPOSITE THAT THE SHINGLES ON
THE SECOND STORY OF THE
ADDITION WILL BE COMPOSITE AND
THAT THE ROOF LINE OF THE
ADDITIONS WILL BE AT LEAST
EIGHT INCHES BELOW THE EXISTING
ROOF LINE OF THE REAR.
GABAL AS PROPOSED AND AMENDED
THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE AND
EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS THE SECRETARY
OF THE INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO FIVE NINE AND 10
AND THE GUIDELINES FOR BUILDING
SITE ADDITIONS AND ROOFS AS
WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR HISTORIC
DISTRICT DESIGN GUIDELINES FOR
ALL EDITIONS RESIDENTIAL
EDITIONS AND ROOFS SUPPORT VERY
GOOD.
I HEARD A MOTION BY
COMMISSIONER WARNER THANK YOU
AND SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
KIYO
VERY GOOD.
LET'S HAVE A DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION WHO WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
COMMENT HERE ANYONE OK NOT THAT
I THINK WE KIND OF TALK THROUGH
QUITE A BIT OF IT.
YEAH QUESTIONED.
YEAH WE CERTAINLY DID.
I AGREE AND I JUST WANT TO
REITERATE THOUGH THAT I THINK
LOWERING THE ROOF BRIDGE WAS
REALLY CRITICAL TO SUPPORTING
THIS PROJECT.
I THINK THAT YOU KNOW, MAYBE
THERE ARE EXAMPLES OUT THERE
WHERE A CERTAIN DESIGN WOULD
NOT HAVE TO LOWER A ROOF BRIDGE
BUT I JUST THINK THAT GIVEN THE
DESIGN DECISIONS THAT WERE MADE
ON THIS PROJECT WHERE REALLY A
LOT OF THE DETAILS OF THE HOUSE
ARE BEING UTILIZED IN THE
ADDITION
AND SO COMPATIBILITY
IS VERY HIGH SO THAT YOU KNOW,
THIS IS ONE OF THE HIGHER
COMPATIBILITY ADDITIONS.
SO THAT MEANS WELL WHERE'S THE
DIFFERENTIATION COMING FROM?
AND SO I THINK THAT WAS KIND
OF THE LAST OF THE PUZZLE
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, THE DESIGNER
DID INSIST THAT THE ADDITION
AND THERE WAS A DECISION TO
CHANGE MATERIALS ON THE FIRST
FLOOR.
BUT I THINK THE WINDOWS ARE
VERY YOU KNOW, SIMILAR LOOK, I
DIDN'T HEAR IT WERE THE WINDOWS
SIZED TO DIFFERENTIATE AT ALL?
YEAH, OK, SO THEY DECIDED TO
DIFFERENTIATE.
SO ANYWAY, THAT JUST SEEMED
LIKE THE LAST PIECE THE PUZZLE
THERE TO MAKE THINGS VERY CLEAR
FOR ME.
SO I APPRECIATE THAT.
LET ME JUST SEE OK, THAT WAS
THE ONLY COMMENT I HAD.
IT DOESN'T SOUND LIKE THERE'S
ANY OTHER ONE SO LET'S MOVE TO
A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY YES.
YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED SAY NO.
OK, THE MOTION CARRIES IT'S
BEEN APPROVED.
YOU PLEASE NO YOU HAVE TO APPLY
FOR PERMITS.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT THE HEARING
IS IS COMPLETE FOR THIS PROJECT
.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
SO HOLD ON LIKE OUR WHEN YOUR
BUILDING PERMIT COMES IN,
THAT'S THE STAGE WHERE I'LL BE
LOOKING AT THAT ROOF HEIGHT AND
STUFF SO JUST MAKE SURE IT'S
CLEAR ON THAT PERMIT AND YOU'LL
BE ALL GOOD.
THANKS I'LL BE OK.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
OK SO WE'LL MOVE ON NOW THIS IS
THE FOURTH HEARING AT FOUR AND
IT'S AT EIGHT 05 3RD STREET.
MISS THATCHER, WILL YOU PLEASE
GIVE THE STAFF REPORT?
YES THANK YOU.
OK YOU DON'T HAVE THIRD STREET
ALSO IN THE OLD WEST SIDE
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND IT'S A
ONE STOREY GABLE FRONT HOME
THAT FIRST APPEARS IN CITY
DIRECTORIES IN NINETEEN THIRTY
FOUR THERE'S A HOME OF WILLIAM
BIRCHALL, A LABORER AND HIS
WIFE HELEN FEATURES A FORWARD
FRONT PORCH THAT WAS ORIGINALLY
UNIN CLOSE.
MOST OF THE WINDOWS ARE
ORIGINAL THREE OVER ONE OF YOUR
MODERN REPLACEMENT'S SIDING IS
VINYL AND THE TRIM IS WRAPPED
IN ALUMINUM THE TYPE OF SIDING
UNDER THE VINYL IS UNKNOWN AND
ADDITION WAS BUILT ON ONE SIDE
OF THE ROOF AT THE REAR OF THE
HOUSE TO MAKE A HABITABLE
SECOND STORY ROOM PROBABLY
AFTER NINETEEN NINETY IN 2004
THE FDA APPROVED AN APPLICATION
TO REPLACE NINE ALUMINUM STORMS
BEING USED AS PORCH WINDOWS
WITH COMPOSITE WINDOWS.
THE APPLICATION THAT
APPLICATIONS SO THAT THE WOOD
WINDOWS IN THE HOUSE WERE NOT
BEING REPLACED.
IT IS LOCATED ON THE EAST SIDE
OF THIRD STREET SOUTH OF COOKE
AVENUE AND NORTH OF WEST DAVIS
AVENUE WAY AT THE TOP OF THE
HILL AND THE APPLICANT IS
SEEKING FDA APPROVAL TO REMOVE
A REAR DECK AND CONSTRUCT A
SINGLE STORY ADDITION WITH A
WALK OUT BASEMENT AND FOUR
SKYLIGHTS SO HERE'S THE HOUSE
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT.
THERE IS A GARAGE HERE ON THE
SIDE.
IT WAS ORIGINALLY C SHAPED OR
HAD A NINETY DEGREE ANGLE IN IT
LIKE IT STILL DOES TODAY AND
THE LET'S SEE THIS IS THE NORTH
SIDE.
THIS IS THE SECOND FLOOR
ADDITION.
IT'S IT'S IT'S POPPED UP ABOVE
THE ROOF RIDGE SO IT'S LARGER
THAN JUST A DORMER YOU KNOW
LIKE A SEDATIVE OR SOMETHING UP
THERE THERE'S ANOTHER PHOTO
OF THE GARAGE.
THE DOORS HAVE BEEN REPLACED.
IT LOOKS LIKE THE OPENINGS
POSSIBLY BEEN CHANGED BUT IT IS
FROM THE PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANT
AND THE ROOF WAS CHANGED AND
THE ROOF WAS CHANGED.
IT USED TO BE A FLAT ROOF AND
NOW IT'S GOT A LITTLE GABLE IN
IT WHICH OBVIOUSLY THERE IS
SNOW IN MICHIGAN AND THAT'S A
GOOD THING.
THIS IS THE MOST AMAZING
BACKYARD.
IT IS SO STEEP YOU GO DOWN THIS
REALLY STEEP FLIGHT OF STAIRS
AND YOU'VE THIS LOVELY BIG
BACKYARD BUT I'VE REALLY NEVER
SEEN A DROP LIKE THAT.
BUT YOU'RE AT THE TOP OF A HILL
SO IT MAKES PERFECT SENSE BACK
AS THE HOUSE HAS A COUPLE
OF WINDOWS ON THE FIRST FLOOR,
A DOOR ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND
YOU CAN SEE THE BACK OF THE
GARAGE THE GRUDGE WAS ADDED ON
TO I'M NOT SURE WHEN I THINK IT
WAS PROBABLY AFTER NINETEEN
FORTY FOUR I DIDN'T LOOK TOO
CLOSELY INTO THAT.
IT WAS JUST SORT OF EXTRUDED
TOWARD THE BACK.
HERE'S AN AERIAL PHOTO TO HELP
YOU SEE IT'S A IT'S A LOVELY
BACKYARD HERE YOU CAN SEE THE
GARAGE YOU ORIGINALLY ENDED
ABOUT HALFWAY BACK HERE AND IT
WAS A L OR A C SHAPE.
THERE'S A VERY NARROW PASSAGE
IN BETWEEN THE HOUSE AND GARAGE
THAT EXISTS TODAY AND THE
PROPOSED ADDITION IS ON THE
BACK.
IT REPLACES WHERE THE THE DECK
CURRENTLY IS IN THE BACKYARD.
I DON'T HAVE A PICTURE OF THAT
BUT BASEMENT PLAN EXISTING
PRETTY TYPICAL MAIN FLOOR
EXISTING.
IT'S A RECTANGULAR FOOTPRINT
AND THE SECOND FLOOR
THE
PROPOSAL IS TO ADD AN ADDITION
OFF THE BACK IT IS INSET AND
THEN IT POPS BACK OUT.
THAT'S BECAUSE THEY'RE THEY'RE
CLOSE TO THE LOT LINE AND
THEY'RE CLOSE TO THE GARAGE
OVER HERE.
SO THERE'S REALLY YOU CAN'T DO
A TRADITIONAL YOU KNOW, JUST
FILL UP THE BACK OF THE HOUSE
AND GO OUT FOUR WAYS.
IT'S SO IT DOES GET VERY NARROW
AND DEEP.
THERE ARE SOME DESIGN FEATURES
THAT THAT DISTINGUISH IT THAT
YOU'LL SEE IN A SECOND THOUGH
THIS IS THE THE MAIN FLOOR WITH
THE NEW ADDITIONS ON BACK.
IT'S GOT A BEDROOM, A BATHROOM,
A CLOSET, A MODERN OK, THIS IS
THE NORTH ELEVATION NOT THE
DRIVEWAY SIDE.
HERE'S THAT LITTLE INSET THAT I
TALKED ABOUT AND IT DOES ALSO
HAVE DROPPED ROOFLINE WHICH IS
VERY MUCH APPRECIATED PART THAT
WAS PROBABLY DECLARE A WINDOW
THAT'S ON THE SECOND FLOOR THAT
SERVES THIS BEDROOM THAT'S UP
HERE BUT IT DOES MAKE FOR A
NICE LITTLE SORT OF A MINI
HYPHEN HALF I HAVE A HYPHEN.
YEAH, FROM THE REAR ELEVATION
PRETTY MODERN LOOK ON THE BACK
.
SEE THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF SKYLIGHTS HERE'S EXISTING
WINDOW THAT'S BEING PRESERVED
UP ON THE TOP AND THIS IS WHERE
THE WALKWAY WOULD BE TO THE
BACKYARD.
LOOKS LIKE THESE ARE NEW POURED
CONCRETE STEPS A LITTLE WIDER
AND WE'VE GOT TO WALK OUT
BASEMENT WELL BELOW THE
EXISTING ROOF LINE WHICH IS
MUCH APPRECIATED AND THEN THIS
IS THE GARAGE SIDE.
SO MOST OF THIS WOULDN'T EVEN
BE VISIBLE AT ALL FROM THE WAY
THAT THE GARAGE WRAPS AROUND
THE HOUSE.
BUT THERE IS A AN ENTRY DOOR
HERE THAT WOULD BE THE CLOSEST
TO THE DRIVEWAY.
THIS IS AN INSECT WHICH IS AN
INTERESTING ARCHITECTURAL
FEATURE TO GIVE THEM A LITTLE
MORE SPACE TO OPEN UP AND PULL
IT AWAY A LITTLE BIT FROM THE
GARAGE.
THOSE NEW STEPS GOING DOWN IN
THE BACKYARD.
THIS IS THE EXISTING FRONT AND
THERE REALLY AREN'T ANY CHANGES
PROPOSED TO IT.
THERE'S INFORMATION IN THE
PACKET ON THE THE CLAD DOORS
AND WINDOWS THAT'S A FAIRLY
MODERN DESIGN OF WINDOWS BUT
IT'S ON THE REAR EDITION AND
ALL THE WINDOWS FACE THE BACK
OR THE GARAGE.
LET ME PUT TO MY STAFF FINDINGS
AND SEE WHAT I AM MISSING.
ROGER BUILT IN NINETEEN THIRTY
THREE IN THE REAR EDITION WAS
AFTER NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT ON
THE GARAGE SO THE FOOTPRINT IS
PROPOSED TO BE INCREASED FROM
730 SQUARE FEET TO ONE THOUSAND
ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THREE
SQUARE FEET FOR AN INCREASE
OF FIFTY NINE PERCENT SO THAT
IS SIGNIFICANTLY OVER THE FIFTY
PERCENT GUIDELINE WHICH IS A
GUIDELINE UM LET'S SEE THE
PROPOSED NEW FLOOR AREA IS AN
INCREASE 57 PERCENT FOR AREA
OF THE NEW BASEMENTS THAT
COUNTED THE THE REASON THAT
THEY END UP GOING OVER ON THE
FLOOR AREA IS BECAUSE OF THAT
EXISTING SECOND LARGE ROOM THAT
HAS TO BE COUNTED TOWARD THE
NEW POST 1944 OUR FLOOR AREA
AND COUNTED TOWARD THE FIFTY
PERCENT THE AUDITION ITSELF
WOULD BE VERY CLOSE TO 50
PERCENT INCREASE THE FLOOR AREA
IF IT WEREN'T FOR THIS EDITION
OF TOP UH LET'S CLADDING IS
SUPPOSED TO BE EIGHT INCH
HERTIE LAP PLANK SIDING.
THERE'S TAMLIN EXTREME TRIM AND
TRIM WINDOWS ARE KASEMAN ARE
FIXED ALUMINUM CLAD.
THERE ARE NO WINDOWS IN THE
NORTH ELEVATION.
THE ADDITIONAL REQUIRE
PERMISSION TO ALTER A NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE FROM THE
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS BECAUSE
IT'S FAIRLY CLOSE TO THE SIDE
LINES.
BUT THAT'S THAT'S NOT A SUPER
BIG DEAL.
IT'S NOT A ZONING VARIANCE PER
SAY WHICH IS A LITTLE HARDER TO
OBTAIN.
THEY'VE ALREADY APPLIED FOR
THAT AND I'VE GONE OVER THE
DESIGN A LITTLE BIT.
SO IN GENERAL THE DESIGN
MATCHES THE THE SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES AND THE DESIGN
ASPECTS OF THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES.
THE ONLY PIECE THAT IS THAT'S
THAT'S TROUBLING IS THAT IT
DOES EXCEED THE 50 PERCENT OVER
BOTH FLOOR AREA AND FOOTPRINT.
SO THAT IS FOR STAFF REPORT.
THANK YOU.
AND WHEN I'M NOT READING YOU
THE SECRETARY OF INTERIOR
STANDARDS GUIDELINES, YOU ALL
SHOULD KNOW THAT THERE ARE MORE
IN THE PACKET.
SORRY I FORGET THAT SOME OF YOU
ARE NEW YOU CAN ALWAYS REFER TO
THOSE THERE ARE OTHERS THAT
EXIST IN THE WORLD THAT YOU CAN
ALSO APPLY IF IF YOU'VE GOT A
FAVORITE STANDARD OR GUIDELINE
SO DON'T FEEL LIKE YOU'RE JUST
RESTRICTED TO WHAT I TALK ABOUT
HERE IN THE MEETING.
THANK YOU.
WHAT WAS
THERE WAS EIGHTY EIGHT
PERCENT WAS A NUMBER THAT I
REMEMBER SEEING.
WHAT WAS THAT IN IN THE STAFF
REPORT?
YEAH IT'S IN NUMBER TWO I THINK
LET'S SEE IT WAS ABOUT THE
FLOOR AREA AND I I WANTED YOU
TO KNOW IT WAS TRICKY.
YOU I I DON'T THINK I DON'T
THINK THAT THIS IS CORRECT.
I THINK THAT THE I THINK THAT I
WROTE THIS AND THEN READ IT ALL
THE MATH FOR THE FOURTH TIME
AND I THINK THAT IT WOULD BE
I'M VERY SORRY ABOUT THAT IN
THERE.
I THINK YOU SHOULD JUST STRIKE
THAT INCREASE FOR AREA OF 88
PERCENT BECAUSE I DON'T THINK
THAT THAT'S CORRECT.
THE APPLICANTS DID INCLUDE THAT
IN THEIR CALCULATIONS.
LISTEN TO THE PLANS.
SO THANK YOU FOR POINTING THAT
OUT.
THANKS FOR THAT CLARIFICATION.
I DID THIS MATH THIS WAY AND
THAT WAY AND THE OTHER WAY AND
MEASURED THINGS MYSELF AND
APPRECIATE THAT.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THE STAFF
REPORT.
NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
COMMISSIONER CAPLAN, DO YOU
WANT TO GIVE US YOUR REPORT?
I MEAN WHATEVER THEY'RE DOING
IS WAY BETTER THAN THE FIRST
AUDITION.
THAT'S PROBABLY NOT THEIR FAULT
THAT THE LIGHT ON THAT ROOF IS
BUT IT COULD HAVE BEEN SO WE
SHOULDN'T SAY THINGS LIKE WHAT
THE YEAH.
COULD HAVE BEEN WE DON'T KNOW
OTHER DIDN'T KNOW AGAIN I THINK
THAT ESPECIALLY WHEN THERE'S
THESE DRAMATIC GRADES IN THE
BACK AND THE ORIGINAL HOUSE
DIDN'T CAPITALIZE AS MUCH AS IT
COULD ON YOU JUST FROM THE
POINT OF LIVABILITY I THINK
IT'S IT'S IT'S GOOD TO SEE YOU
KNOW THE BACK OF THIS HOUSE IS
USED BETTER.
THANK YOU.
OK, SO YEAH, THE STAFF REPORT
WAS VERY THOROUGH AS ALWAYS.
BUT I WILL JUST REITERATE A FEW
THINGS.
OH AND ONE INTERESTING THING
THAT I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
MENTIONED WAS IF YOU LOOK AT
THE SANDBORN MAP, THE THE REAR
PROPERTY LINE USED TO BE RIGHT
AT THE BACK OF THIS HOUSE AND
THEN THE BACKYARD THAT WE WERE
LOOKING AT WAS I GUESS SOMEHOW
THE THE THE COOK STREET
BACKYARDS PERHAPS I DON'T BUT
SOMEHOW THROUGH WHATEVER
HAPPENS THIS THIS LONG BACKYARD
IS NOW THEIR PROPERTY AND IT IS
IT DOES FEEL KIND OF LIKE ON
LIBERTY STREET THIS THIS
PROPERTY FEELS VERY LONG.
THE VIEW IS INCREDIBLE AT LEAST
IN THE WINTER.
I DON'T KNOW IF IN I'D BE
CURIOUS IN THE IN THE SUMMER
BECAUSE THERE'S THERE WAS A LOT
OF TREES ON THE BACK PROPERTY
LINE THERE.
BUT ANYWAY YOU CAN SEE FOR
QUITE A WAYS FROM THE BACKYARD
ALTHOUGH IF YOU REMEMBER THAT
ONE OF THE FIRST PHOTOS THAT
THAT MRS THATCHER SHOWED FROM
THE FRONT YARD IS YOU SEE THE
HOUSE AND THE GARAGE THERE'S SO
CLOSE TO EACH OTHER AND AND THE
LOT IS NARROW AND THE HOUSES
ARE RELATIVELY CLOSE TO EACH
OTHER.
YOU CANNOT SEE THE BACKYARD AT
ALL FROM THE STREET.
YOU WILL NOT SEE ANY OF THIS
EDITION FROM EITHER FROM COOK
STREET.
IT'S POSSIBLE WHEN YOU'RE GOING
DOWN COOK IF YOU LOOK BACK COOK
STREET FELT VERY LOW SO LIKE
WE'RE UP AND LIKE THAT'S
ALREADY GOING DOWN QUITE A BIT
QUICKLY AND YOU AND I THINK
THERE WAS MAYBE JUST A ONE
STORY HOUSE OR SOMETHING BUT
WHEN YOU'RE STANDING BACK THERE
AND KIND OF LOOKING BACK INTO
THE NEIGHBORS ON COOK STREET
INTO THEIR BACKYARDS, YOU'RE
LOOKING ON TOP OF THEIR HOUSES.
IN FACT, ONE HAD A VERY COOL
DECK THAT THEY HAD KIND
OF BUILT AND ATTACHED TO THEIR
ROOF WHERE THEY WERE HANGING
WELL THEY WEREN'T HANGING OUT
BUT YOU COULD HANG OUT ON YOUR
ROOF THERE SO YOU WERE KIND
OF LOOKING DOWN.
SO IN THAT CASE THIS THE
ADDITION THERE WILL FEEL QUITE
TALL.
I THINK IN THAT ONE YOU CAN'T
NOT FROM ANY RIGHT AWAY BUT
JUST FOR FOR THOSE NEIGHBORS AS
AND THE EVERYTHING'S BUILT TO
THE THOSE NEIGHBORS BECAUSE
THIS WAS THEIR OLD BACKYARD.
IT'S NOT LIKE THEY HAVE A 30
FOOT SET BACK.
THERE'S NO FIVE FOOT SET BACK
TO THE PROPERTY LINE.
THEN THERE'S GOING TO BE FIVE
FEET I THINK AND THEN THE
ADDITION WHICH WILL FEEL TWO
STORIES HIGH AT THAT POINT
BECAUSE OF THE YOU'LL FEEL THE
FULL YOU'LL SEE THE FULL
BASEMENT AND THEN THE FULL
SECOND STORY.
SO THAT'S KIND OF THE ONE POINT
WHERE THERE WILL BE SOME IMPACT
.
OTHERWISE YOU'RE YOU'RE NOT
REALLY SEEING THIS AT ALL.
LET'S OH ANOTHER THING IS THIS
THIS PROPERTY WE DIDN'T KNOW
EXACTLY BUT IT IS LIKE RIGHT ON
THE EDGE OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT LIKE THE OLD WEST
SIDE.
IT'S I DON'T KNOW MAYBE IT WAS
ONE OR TWO HOUSES FURTHER UP
THIRD WAS OR THIS WAS MAYBE THE
END I DON'T KNOW BUT IT'S RIGHT
ON THE EDGE THERE FOR WHATEVER
THAT'S WORTH.
BUT CERTAINLY IF YOU KIND
OF TAKE IN THE THE NEIGHBORHOOD
SETTING, YOU KNOW, YOU COULD
KIND OF DO WHATEVER YOU WANT
JUST RIGHT NEARBY YOU TO TWO OR
THREE STORIES DOWN.
YOU'RE YOU'RE YOU'RE YOU'RE
DOING WHATEVER KNOCKING DOWN A
BUILDING ANYWAY SO THAT YOU
KNOW, THAT HAS KIND OF SOME
EFFECT.
OK, SO THAT'S THE REVIEW
COMMITTEE REPORT EITHER A
REVIEW COMMITTEE OF COURSE YOU
WERE DESCRIBING YOU KNOW YOUR
NEIGHBOR THAT YOU THAT THAT YOU
WOULD GET THE FULL THAT YEAH.
THE STREET FROM THE RIGHT AWAY
YOU GET YOU HAVE RIGHT.
SO I DIDN'T GO DOWN OH FROM
FROM THIRD STREET CERTAINLY NOT
FROM SOME COOK THERE THERE WERE
SOME THERE ARE SOME VEGETATION
ON THE PROPERTY LINE SO SOME
OF IT WILL BE BLOCKED BY
VEGETATION AND IN THE SUMMER
BUT LET'S THINK I THINK THAT
YOU'LL SEE IT BUT IT'S GOING TO
BE A FULL PROPERTY IS AWAY
RIGHT.
SO IT'LL BE IT WON'T BE LIKE
IMPACTING THE STREET.
THE HOUSES THEMSELVES ARE
SCREENED.
YEAH.
I MEAN I'VE GOT GOOGLE STREET
VIEW.
YEAH.
PICTURE UP THERE AND YOU'RE NOT
GOING TO BE ABLE TO SEE IT
BECAUSE THEIR HOUSES IN IT.
RIGHT.
RIGHT YEAH.
YEAH YEAH YOU MIGHT YEAH YEAH.
THAT YOU'RE SHORTER THAN THE
HOUSE SO YEAH IN ELEVATION AND
YOU WOULD SEE IT BUT
PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVAL YOU
WON'T IT I THINK YEAH YEAH
OF COURSE.
OK SO NOW WE'LL GO TO APPLICANT
COMMENTS AND IS THE APPLICANT
HERE GREAT.
SO APPROACH THE PODIUM PLEASE
PROVIDE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS
FOR THE RECORD AND THEN YOU'VE
HEARD SOME COMMENTS SO FAR IN
THE STAFF REPORT SO LET US SO
MANY DAYS WITH DRAFT DESIGN
BUILD THE CONTRACTOR AND
DESIGNER FOR THE ATO 53RD
STREET PROPERTY.
SO I GUESS YOU GUYS HIT ON A
LOT OF THE CHALLENGES OF THIS
PROPERTY OBVIOUSLY AS YOU CAN
TELL IT IS IS AND WAS ALWAYS A
VERY SMALL HOME WITH A VERY
TIGHT, TIGHT AND LONG LOT.
YOU KNOW, AND THEN THE HISTORIC
GARAGE BEING I THINK AT POINTS
LIKE THREE TO FOUR FEET AWAY
FROM THE PRIMARY RESIDENCE WITH
A VERY CHALLENGING IN TERMS
OF AS YOU MENTIONED DOING A
RARE EDITION.
ALSO THE STIPULATION THAT WE
COULDN'T GO UP SORT OF REQUIRED
THAT WE STAY VERY SLENDER AND
LONG AND TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THAT
D BLOCK AND THEN I WOULD SAY
ALSO AS THATCHER MENTIONED, THE
SORT OF ZONING WHAT WE THOUGHT
WAS GOING TO BE A VARIANCE BUT
ALTERATION OF THE NON
CONFORMING STRUCTURE BECAUSE
OF IT'S ZONED IN A MULTIFAMILY
DISTRICT EVEN THOUGH THE HOME
CLEARLY HAS ALWAYS BEEN SINGLE
FAMILY.
IT'S SORT OF THIS OUTLIER THAT
AS YOU MENTIONED THE LAST
HISTORIC HOUSE AMONG A SEA
OF THEIR FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS.
SO IT'S BEEN A CHALLENGING
DESIGN PROCESS.
BUT I THINK WE CAME TO YOU
KNOW, A CONCEPT THAT THAT
SHOULD WORK THAT GIVES THE
HOMEOWNERS WHAT THEY WANT.
USABLE SQUARE FOOTAGE ADDS
ADDITIONAL BEDROOM ADDITIONAL
BATHROOM TO MAKE IT A MUCH MORE
LIVABLE SPACE FOR YOU KNOW, FOR
A GROWING FAMILY.
THANK YOU.
SO THE BIGGEST ISSUE WE HEARD
WAS JUST BEING OVER THE
STANDARD.
OH YEAH.
FIFTY PERCENT.
SO CAN YOU JUST YEAH.
GIVE US THE JUSTIFICATION FOR
FOR WHY YOU'RE DOING THAT AND
YEAH.
SO AGAIN GOING BACK TO I WOULD
SAY ONE OF THE BIGGEST
CHALLENGES IS THE ORIGINAL THE
SIZE THE SHEER JUST THE SMALL
SIZE OF THE ORIGINAL STRUCTURE
AND THEN TAKING INTO ACCOUNT AS
MISS THATCHER MENTIONED THE
SECOND FLOOR THE SECOND FLOOR
DORMER BUMP OUT IT MAKES IT
VERY LIMITING AS TO WHAT YOU
CAN DO TO TO THE POINT WHERE
YOU KNOW, YOU MORE OR LESS BE
ADDING ON LIKE A SHADYSIDE
STRUCTURE.
IT MAKES IT SO THAT YOU HAVE TO
MAKE ANY USE OF THIS ADDITION.
YOU HAVE TO BE WE'RE TRYING TO
STAY CLOSE TO THAT FIFTY
PERCENT MARK.
BUT WE DID END UP, YOU KNOW,
JUST SLIGHTLY
OVER TO MAKE IT
YOU KNOW, TO GIVE SPACE TO GET
INTO THE ADDITION AND THEN TO
ACTUALLY HAVE LIKE THE PROPER
SIZE BATHROOM PROPER SIZE
BEDROOM TO BASICALLY MAKE IT
MAKE IT USEFUL AND NOT JUST
SORT OF A VANITY EDITION.
OK, DOES ANYONE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR ADAM SERGEYEVNA?
OK, ANY QUESTIONS.
OK, LET ME JUST SEE IF I HAD
ANY OH I JUST THE ONE THIS IS
JUST A DETAIL QUESTION BUT I'M
WONDERING WHAT IS THE THE
DISTANCE BETWEEN THE THE
ADDITIONS AND THE BOATHOUSE.
I DIDN'T SEE IT ON THE DRAFT.
YEAH SO AS IN THE PLAN THERE'S
ACTUALLY SO AT ITS WIDEST POINT
AT THE ADDITIONS WIDEST POINT
WHICH IS CLOSEST TO THE
DRIVEWAY THERE IS A THREE FOOT
WALKWAY WHICH THEN WHEN YOU GET
TOWARDS THE BEDROOM PORTION
OF THE BACK STEPS IN ANOTHER
TWO FEET TO BECOME A FIVE FOOT
SET OF STEPS DOWN.
OK, SO IT'S KIND OF KIND
OF FUNNELS OUTWARD INTO THE
YARD.
OK AND WAS THAT WHAT WHAT MISS
THATCHER WAS REFERRING TO THAT
INSTEAD OF THAT SO YEAH THE
INSET OCCURS WHEN YOU GET SORT
OF BEYOND THE THERE'S A MUDROOM
SORT OF BETWEEN THE EXISTING
HOUSE AND THE BEDROOM PORTION
THE MUDROOM IS THE WIDER WITH
AND THEN THE BEDROOM STEPS INTO
RIGHT.
OK YEAH.
AND THEN ABOVE THAT LITTLE STEP
AND THERE'S KIND OF LIKE A
SOFFIT THAT IS THERE IS THAT TO
THE GABLE TO GO OR SOMETHING TO
MAINTAIN THE YEAH.
THE SYMMETRIC NATURE OF THE
GABLE AS WELL AS OBVIOUSLY FROM
A USABILITY STANDPOINT MAKING
YOU KNOW BECAUSE OBVIOUSLY
LOSING AN OUTDOOR PATIO SPACE
SO THE HOMEOWNERS TALKED ABOUT
HAVING A SPOT FOR LIKE GRILLING
AND GATHERING UNDER THAT
OVERHANG.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
AND THEN WHY IS IT CALLED THE
BOATHOUSE AND NOT A GARAGE?
BECAUSE THERE'S MESS ON THE
HOMEOWNERS HERE.
I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY.
YES.
OWNER FILIPOV OH COOL.
WHY DO YOU FEEL ABOUT
G
WANT TO KNOW HOW THEY GET THE
BOAT UP TO THE STREET?
OH YEAH.
GREAT.
OK, ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT OR SHOULD WE MOVE ON
HERE?
OK WELL WE'RE GOING TO MOVE OUT
WE MIGHT INVITE YOU BACK IN A
SEC BUT WE'LL WE'LL MOVE ON TO
THE PUBLIC HEARING SO I WILL
NOW OPEN THE PUBLIC HEARING FOR
THIS ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES ON THIS APPLICATION AT
EIGHT OR FIVE THIRD IT DOESN'T
LOOK LIKE WE HAVE ANYONE HERE
NO ONE ON THE LINE SO CLOSE THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND WE'LL MOVE
ON TO COMMISSIONER MOTION AND
WOULD ANY COMMISSIONER LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION COMMISSIONER FOR
DINNER?
THANK YOU.
MAY I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE A CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT TEN THIRTY FOUR
WEST LIBERTY CONTRIBUTING
PROPERTY ON THE AM I IN THE
WRONG SORRY
.
OH YEAH IS IT IT'S A TYPO YEAH.
YEAH.
OH SORRY.
OH MY GOD I WAS ON THE RIGHT
YEAH YOU'RE IN THE RIGHT WAY.
YEAH YEAH.
CONFUSE ME TO REMOVE OR
READAPTING.
YEAH IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S FINE NO
I'D SAY YOU KNOW FIVE THIRD
OK
BUT EVERYTHING ELSE IS RIGHT
LOOKS LIKE IT.
YEAH I MOVE THAT THE COMMISSION
ISSUE THE CERTIFICATE
OF APPROPRIATENESS FOR THE
APPLICATION AT 805 THIRD STREET
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY IN THE
OLD WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT
TO REMOVE A REAR DECK AND
CONSTRUCT A SINGLE STORY
EDITION WITH A WALK OUT
BASEMENT AND FOUR SKYLIGHTS AS
PROPOSED THE WORK IS COMPATIBLE
IN EXTERIOR DESIGN ARRANGEMENT
TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING, THE SURROUNDING AREA
AND MEETS THE SECRETARY OF THE
INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATOR AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO, FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR
BUILDING SITE ADDITIONS AND
ROOFS AS WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS,
RESIDENTIAL EDITIONS AND SECOND
GRADE THAT WAS PROPOSED BY
COMMISSIONER FORTNER AND
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
CALDERON.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON THE
MOTION?
LET'S LET'S MAYBE HOLD OFF ON
THE SIZE DISCUSSION.
YOU KNOW, IS THERE ANY
DISCUSSION ON ANYTHING NOT
RELATED TO THE FACT THAT IT'S
IT'S OVER THE FIFTY PERCENT
STANDARD?
I THINK THAT, YOU KNOW,
SOMETHING THAT THAT IS IS MAYBE
A DISCUSSION ITEM IS THIS
EXISTING THAT IS REALLY GOING
TO GO AWAY.
SO THERE'S LIKE THE TOP OF THE
HILL, THE BACKYARD IS KIND
OF FLAT AND THEN THERE'S A VERY
STRONG AND IT AND THEN IT KIND
OF EVENS OUT.
I THINK THAT IF THAT WAS MORE
OF A VISIBLE THING IT MIGHT BE
I DON'T KNOW, QUESTIONABLE TO
TO CHANGE THE LANDSCAPE IN THAT
WAY.
IT HERE IT JUST SEEMS KIND
OF INVISIBLE TO THE STREET AND
TREACHEROUS TO BE IT'S A VERY
STEEP.
BUT YOU KNOW, IF THAT WAS
SOMETHING IT WAS LIKE PART
OF THE NEIGHBORHOOD OR
SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE WERE
LOOKING AT MAYBE MAYBE IT WOULD
BE UP FOR DISCUSSION.
IT'S VERY CLOSE TO AN EXISTING
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE ALTHOUGH
THAT STRUCTURE HAS BEEN CHANGED
DRASTICALLY.
SO I THINK I'M NOT HEARING
COMMENTS THERE BECAUSE IS IT
MAYBE BECAUSE OF THE FACT THAT
THAT THE BOAT HOUSE HAS BEEN
ALTERED MAYBE BEYOND I GUESS
IT'S YOU KNOW, LACKING
CHARACTER DEFINING FEATURES
LET'S SAY OK, SO THEN LET'S
LET'S DISCUSS THE STANDARD THE
FIFTY PERCENT STANDARD WHAT IS
ANYONE IS ANYONE THINKING THAT
WHAT THEY'RE SEEING IS IS IS OK
EVEN THOUGH IT'S OVER THE
STANDARDS I JUST I'M CURIOUS
WHAT THE COMMISSION'S THINKING
.
I WOULD SAY YES.
I MEAN TYPICALLY YEAH WE WANT
TO KIND OF KEEP OUR ADDITIONS
AND APPROPRIATELY SCALED IN
COMPARISON.
BUT I THINK IN THIS UNIQUE CASE
FOR THIS UNIQUE PROPERTY, AS
YOU POINTED OUT, YOU'RE REALLY
NOT GOING TO SEE THIS THE
PUBLIC VIEWS ARE NOT IMPACTED
NEGATIVELY AND THEY'VE GOT A
LOT OF OTHER CONSTRAINTS TO TO
WORK WITH HERE AND I THINK IT'S
THAT THEY'RE GETTING CREATIVE
WITH WHAT THEY CAN DO TO MAKE A
USEABLE EDITION AND IT'S NOT
EXCESSIVELY EXCEEDING 50
PERCENT.
I THINK THE RULE FOR 50 PERCENT
IS A GOOD ONE TO HAVE.
IT HELPS US TO PROTECT FROM
SITUATIONS WHERE SOMEONE IS
PERHAPS BUILDING SOMETHING THAT
TOTALLY OVERPOWERS THEIR
PARTICULAR SITE.
IN THIS CASE THE FACT THAT THIS
SITE, THE DIMENSIONS OF THE LAW
ARE SUCH THAT IT STILL DOES
EVEN WITH A LITTLE GOING A
LITTLE BIT OVER THE FIFTY
PERCENT I DID NOT FEEL LIKE
THAT WAS LOOMING OVER THE BACK
END OF THE LOT AT ALL.
THERE'S STILL A LOT TO GO AFTER
THEY'RE DONE ADDING TO IT
COUPLED WITH THAT THIS IS SUCH
A CLOISTERED SITE.
THERE'S SO MUCH BUILT IN
ALREADY BETWEEN THE HOUSES THAT
CLOSE TOGETHER AND THEN THE
BOATHOUSE AND THE GARAGE KIND
OF EFFECTIVELY WALL THIS OFF.
THE ONLY THE ONLY IMPACT THE
ADDITION HAS IS ON THEIR OWN
YARD AND THEY ALREADY WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF SOME OF THE
NEIGHBORS.
BUT I DON'T THINK THAT'S REALLY
OUR PURVIEW HERE.
I DON'T SEE IT I DON'T SEE
AFFECTING THE PERSPECTIVE
OF SOMEONE WALKING DOWN THE
OTHER STREETS.
I THEY SEE IT THE IMPACT TO
THEM.
SO YEAH, EVEN THOUGH THAT RULE
EXISTS, I DON'T KNOW THAT IT
REALLY NEEDS TO BE STRINGENTLY
ENFORCED HERE.
OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS OR MAYBE
IN THE OTHER DIRECTION OR.
WELL I JUST AGREE IT'S HARD TO
IMAGINE AN ADDITION THAT COULD
HAVE LESS IMPACT ITS HISTORIC
CHARACTER OF THE BUILDING FROM
THE PUBLIC RIGHT AWAY.
YEAH, VERY GOOD.
I MEAN I THINK I SIMPLY ADD
THAT, YOU KNOW, IT'S A TINY
LITTLE HOUSE THERE LIKE YOU
KNOW FIFTY PERCENT OF THAT
THAT'S HARDLY, YOU KNOW, ENOUGH
USABLE SPACE TO JUSTIFY DOING
ADDITIONS LIKE THIS.
YEAH.
YOU KNOW, I THINK I THE SITE
CONTEXT MATTERS, RIGHT.
AND YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT THIS
IS A CREATIVE SOLUTION TO A
CHALLENGING PROBLEM ON THAT
SITE AND YOU KNOW, I THINK
GIVEN MY BACKGROUND AND THAT
I'VE KNOCKED A NUMBER OF DOORS
IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD ON THE
STREET THERE THERE ARE A LOT
OF LIKE WEIRD COOL LITTLE SET
BACK PLACES THAT YOU HAVE NO
IDEA THAT IT'S REALLY A BIG
HOUSE IN THERE AND IT'S JUST
KIND THE THE QUIRKS OF THE
TOPOGRAPHY OF THAT COMING UP
THE HILL THERE.
AND I THINK THIS IS A GREAT
SOLUTION TO THIS.
YEAH, YEAH.
IT'LL BE QUITE A SURPRISE KIND
OF ONCE YOU SEE THE EDITION.
THAT'S COOL.
OK, WELL THANKS FOR THOSE
COMMENTS.
I WILL I AGREE WITH WITH ALL
OF THAT AND ALSO ADD THAT FOR
THIS I AGREE THAT THIS IS JUST
A REALLY
COMPLEX PROJECT TO
TAKE ON AND THE THE THE HALF A
HYPHEN THAT'S IN THERE REALLY
DOES A LOT OF A LOT OF DESIGN
WORK AND SO IT NATURALLY ADDS
FLOOR AREA.
BUT I THINK IT'S IF I'M JUST
SAYING LIKE WHAT'S THE EXTRA
THAT THEY GOT AND IF IT'S THE
HYPHEN THAT SEEMS LIKE KIND
OF WORTH IT FOR ME TO TO KIND
OF HAVE AS PART OF THIS PROJECT
BECAUSE I JUST THINK IT DOES A
LOT OF THINGS THAT WORK ON THIS
PROJECT.
OK, SO ANY OTHER COMMENTS
DOESN'T LOOK LIKE IT.
SO LET'S GO TO A VOTE.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY YES.
YES, YES.
ALL THOSE OPPOSED PLEASE SAY NO
MOTION CARRIES YOUR APPLICATION
HAS BEEN APPROVED.
OF COURSE YOU'VE ALREADY GOTTEN
ZONING AND PERMITS AND ALL THAT
AHEAD OF TIME.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
YEAH.
RATE WELL THERE'S ONE MORE AND
THAT'S FIVE FIVE FORTY EIGHT S
FIRST STREET YOU GOT IT.
STAFF REPORT PLEASE.
I'M SORRY.
YEAH.
IS LISTED IN THE 1894 CITY
DIRECTORY AND MAY HAVE BEEN
PRESENT IN 1880 OR THREE OR
EARLIER.
MRS SCHNEIDER IS THE FIRST
LISTED OCCUPANT OF NINETY S
FIRST STREET IN 1894 SO THERE
UNTIL IT'S 1910 THE HOUSE'S
FIRST APPEARANCE ON THE
SANDBORN FIRE INSURANCE MAP WAS
IN 1916.
AT THAT TIME THE HOUSE HAD A
WRAPAROUND FRONT PORCH AND A
COVERED REAR PORCH BY NINETEEN
THIRTY ONE THE REAR PORCH HAD
BEEN REPLACED BY ONE STOREY
EDITION WHICH IS A ONE AND A
HALF STOREY ADDITION TODAY AND
THE ONE STOREY SIDE WING THAT
YOU SEE IN THE PHOTO HERE IS
SHOWN IN BOTH HERE.
SO IT IS FROM PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT.
IT'S AN ADDITION ON THE SIDE
BUT IT'S A VERY EARLY ONE AND
IT ALSO HAS A STONE FOUNDATION.
I GO OFF YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
HOW THE SANDBORN SHOW THIS IS A
FRAME HOUSE, NOT A BRICK HOUSE
.
YOU CAN READ THAT IF YOU FEEL
LIKE IT.
IT'S A VERY INTERESTING HOUSE
TO ME HISTORICALLY BECAUSE IT'S
KIND OF HARD FOR ME TO TELL
WHAT'S GOING ON AND I LIKE THAT
THE HOUSE IS ON THE WEST SIDE
OF S FIRST STREET SOUTH OF WEST
AND NORTH OF WEST MADISON AND
THE APPLICANT IS SEEKING FDA
APPROVAL TO ADD A ONE HUNDRED
AND NINETY NINE SQUARE FOOT
RARE EDITION OFF THE SOUTHWEST
CORNER OF THE HOUSE BEHIND THE
EXISTING SIDE WING.
SO RUNNING THROUGH THE PHOTOS
HERE COVERED PORCH HERE WAS
BUILT AT AT SOME POINT IN FRONT
OF THIS THIS SIDE ADDITION I
MENTIONED EDITION DOES HAVE A
STONE FOUNDATION.
YOU CAN'T ALWAYS SEE IT THERE
BUT IT'S VERY OLD.
IT'S DIFFERENTIATED A LITTLE
BIT FROM THE MAIN HOUSE.
THE WINDOWS ARE A LITTLE BIT
DIFFERENT BUT THERE USED TO BE
A WRAPAROUND PORCH THAT WENT
ALL THE WAY ACROSS THE FRONT
AND AROUND TO THIS SIDE DOOR
AND THIS IS WHAT IT LOOKS FROM
THE BACK.
IT'S SORT OF A STORYBOOK
COTTAGE IN THE BACK WHICH I
JUST LOVE.
HERE'S THE BACK OF THE EDITION
AND THE PROPOSAL IS TO PUT A
SINGLE EDITION SLIGHTLY INSET
FROM THIS CORNER AND GOING BACK
AND BASICALLY FILLING UP THE
SPACE HERE FEATURES THAT WOULD
BE LOST TO THE ADDITION ARE
THIS HOBBIT DOOR ON THE SIDE
WHICH IS VERY ODD AND A GLASS
IN GLASS BLOCKED IN WINDOW AND
THESE THESE TWO WINDOWS THAT
ARE LARGER ONE OF THE ONES
THERE'S A VIEW ON THE LEFT
OF THE BACK OF THE HOUSE THIS
IS THIS WAS TACKED ON SOME
LATER DATE SORT OF AN ENTRY OR
MUDROOM.
THERE WAS NOT A PORCH BACK HERE
THAT WAS EVER SHOWN ON MAPS AT
LEAST AND THIS IS THE VIEW
OF THE SIDE THE OTHER SIDE THAT
WOULD BE AFFECTED BY THIS WORK.
SO THERE'S THE SANDBORN SHOWS
YOU THE ONE STOREY FRONT PORCH
AND THE TWO ADDITIONS.
IF YOU LOOK AT THAT THE THE
SOUTH EDITION IS FLUSH WITH THE
BACK OF THE TWO STOREY IN THE
SANDBORN BUT WHAT'S BUILT
THERE'S THAT WINDOW THERE'S A
WINDOW REVEAL THERE.
YEAH.
SO THAT'S ALSO A PECULIARITY.
REALLY MOST OF THESE HOUSES ARE
YEAH.
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD TO
REALLY MOST OF THESE HOUSES ARE
FIGURE OUT BUT THIS ONE JUST IS
PRETTY STRAIGHTFORWARD TO
NOT AS REBUILT BUT FORTUNATELY
FIGURE OUT BUT THIS ONE JUST IS
IT'S JUST CHARMING THE WAY IT
NOT AS REBUILT BUT FORTUNATELY
IS.
IT'S JUST CHARMING THE WAY IT
THERE'S A TWO STOREY BAR IN THE
IS.
BACK.
THERE'S A TWO STOREY BAR IN THE
THIS IS MARKED AUTO GARAGE BUT
BACK.
IF YOU GO BACK A LITTLE BIT
THIS IS MARKED AUTO GARAGE BUT
FURTHER IT'S IT'S IT WOULD HAVE
IF YOU GO BACK A LITTLE BIT
HAD A BIG X ACROSS IT
FURTHER IT'S IT'S IT WOULD HAVE
SIGNIFYING THAT IT WAS BUILT AS
HAD A BIG X ACROSS IT
A BARN OR A STABLE PHOTOGRAPHS
SIGNIFYING THAT IT WAS BUILT AS
AND RENDERINGS FROM THE
A BARN OR A STABLE PHOTOGRAPHS
APPLICANT.
AND RENDERINGS FROM THE
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE NEW
APPLICANT.
EDITION STARTS BACK HERE.
YOU CAN SEE WHERE THE NEW
IT WOULD BE A CONTINUOUS ROOF.
EDITION STARTS BACK HERE.
IT'S METAL NOW AND IT WOULD BE
IT WOULD BE A CONTINUOUS ROOF.
REMOVED ONE INTEGRAL METAL
IT'S METAL NOW AND IT WOULD BE
STANDING SEAM ROOF YOU CAN'T
REMOVED ONE INTEGRAL METAL
TELL THAT WHEN YOU'RE STANDING
STANDING SEAM ROOF YOU CAN'T
THERE AT ALL.
TELL THAT WHEN YOU'RE STANDING
I SEE IF I CAN ZOOM IN ON THIS
THERE AT ALL.
NOTE, I GUESS I CAN'T NO, IT'S
I SEE IF I CAN ZOOM IN ON THIS
NOT GOING TO LET ME DO IT.
NOTE, I GUESS I CAN'T NO, IT'S
OK, THERE IS VERTICAL SIDING ON
NOT GOING TO LET ME DO IT.
THE UPPER PORTION OF THE
OK, THERE IS VERTICAL SIDING ON
ADDITIONS THE WINDOWS, THE THE
THE UPPER PORTION OF THE
THE THE WINDOWS UP HERE HAVE
ADDITIONS THE WINDOWS, THE THE
BEEN SQUARED OFF.
THE THE WINDOWS UP HERE HAVE
THIS IS THIS IS NOT A STONE
BEEN SQUARED OFF.
WALL AT ALL BECAUSE THIS IS A
THIS IS THIS IS NOT A STONE
FRAME CONSTRUCTION BUT IT'S
WALL AT ALL BECAUSE THIS IS A
IT'S SORT OF A BOARD ON EDGE TO
FRAME CONSTRUCTION BUT IT'S
LOOK LIKE A LITTLE THAT WOULD
IT'S SORT OF A BOARD ON EDGE TO
HAVE MATCHED ALL OF THE REST
LOOK LIKE A LITTLE THAT WOULD
OF THEM ON THE HOUSE WHICH IS
HAVE MATCHED ALL OF THE REST
KIND OF A COOL DETAIL AND THE
OF THEM ON THE HOUSE WHICH IS
WINDOWS ARE NOT THE SAME
KIND OF A COOL DETAIL AND THE
PROPORTIONS BELOW IS SORT OF A
WINDOWS ARE NOT THE SAME
NEW WALL OF BRICK TO BE
PROPORTIONS BELOW IS SORT OF A
COMPATIBLE AND TIE IN WITH THE
NEW WALL OF BRICK TO BE
REST OF THE HOUSE.
COMPATIBLE AND TIE IN WITH THE
BUT TO ALSO DISTINGUISH IT HERE
REST OF THE HOUSE.
IS WHERE THE ONE HUNDRED AND
BUT TO ALSO DISTINGUISH IT HERE
NINETY NINE FOOT ADDITION IS
IS WHERE THE ONE HUNDRED AND
LOCATED ON THE BACK OF THE
NINETY NINE FOOT ADDITION IS
HOUSE.
LOCATED ON THE BACK OF THE
THIS IS A GREAT ONE OF THE
HOUSE.
ORIGINAL SIZE OF THE WEST SIDE
THIS IS A GREAT ONE OF THE
LOT VERY SPACIOUS.
ORIGINAL SIZE OF THE WEST SIDE
THIS IS EXISTING THERE'S THE
LOT VERY SPACIOUS.
DOOR THERE THAT I SHOWED YOU
THIS IS EXISTING THERE'S THE
THAT WOULD BE REMOVED AND AIR
DOOR THERE THAT I SHOWED YOU
CONDITIONING UNIT WOULD BE
THAT WOULD BE REMOVED AND AIR
RELOCATED BACK HERE IT'S SHOWN
CONDITIONING UNIT WOULD BE
ON A DIFFERENT DRAWING AND
RELOCATED BACK HERE IT'S SHOWN
THESE ARE THE WINDOWS THAT
ON A DIFFERENT DRAWING AND
WOULD BE TAKEN OUT HERE ON THE
THESE ARE THE WINDOWS THAT
SIDE THERE IS THE ADDITION IN
WOULD BE TAKEN OUT HERE ON THE
SEARCH IS FIVE INCHES FROM THE
SIDE THERE IS THE ADDITION IN
EXISTING CORNERS.
SEARCH IS FIVE INCHES FROM THE
THE HOUSE IS CURRENTLY ONE
EXISTING CORNERS.
THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED NINETY
THE HOUSE IS CURRENTLY ONE
FOUR SQUARE FEET.
THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED NINETY
ALL OF IT'S BELIEVED TO HAVE
FOUR SQUARE FEET.
BEEN BUILT BEFORE NINETEEN
ALL OF IT'S BELIEVED TO HAVE
FORTY FIVE.
BEEN BUILT BEFORE NINETEEN
SO THIS WOULD BE AN INCREASE
FORTY FIVE.
OF ELEVEN PERCENT OF FLOOR AREA
SO THIS WOULD BE AN INCREASE
AND SEVENTEEN PERCENT
OF ELEVEN PERCENT OF FLOOR AREA
OF FOOTPRINT.
AND SEVENTEEN PERCENT
THE VERTICAL SIDING IS TRUE
OF FOOTPRINT.
EXTERIOR POLY ASH WHICH IS
THE VERTICAL SIDING IS TRUE
BORAL IT IS BORAL.
EXTERIOR POLY ASH WHICH IS
OK WELL THAT'S THE COMPANY THAT
BORAL IT IS BORAL.
MAKES YOUR EXTERIORS OK OK I
OK WELL THAT'S THE COMPANY THAT
GOOGLED THE PAGE YOU DIDN'T SAY
MAKES YOUR EXTERIORS OK OK I
BORAL ANYWHERE SO I WAS READING
GOOGLED THE PAGE YOU DIDN'T SAY
ABOUT IT AND MADE FLY ASH OR
BORAL ANYWHERE SO I WAS READING
COAL COMBUSTION BYPRODUCT.
ABOUT IT AND MADE FLY ASH OR
YEAH THAT'S KIND OF COOL OR YOU
COAL COMBUSTION BYPRODUCT.
OK OK I WINDOWS ARE JELD-WEN
YEAH THAT'S KIND OF COOL OR YOU
WOULD DOUBLE HUM AND THE
OK OK I WINDOWS ARE JELD-WEN
WINDOWS HAVE A FALSE LINTEL
WOULD DOUBLE HUM AND THE
MADE FROM PAINTED SIX INCH TRIM
WINDOWS HAVE A FALSE LINTEL
BOARD ON EDGE.
MADE FROM PAINTED SIX INCH TRIM
I ALREADY MENTIONED THAT THIS
BOARD ON EDGE.
EDITION IS SMALL AND DISCRETE
I ALREADY MENTIONED THAT THIS
AND STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL.
EDITION IS SMALL AND DISCRETE
THANK YOU.
AND STAFF RECOMMENDS APPROVAL.
WE WILL NOW I DIDN'T EVEN GO
THANK YOU.
THROUGH ALL THE DRAWINGS.
WE WILL NOW I DIDN'T EVEN GO
OH YEAH OK LET'S GET THE
THROUGH ALL THE DRAWINGS.
DRAWINGS IT'S SUCH A GOOD ONE
OH YEAH OK LET'S GET THE
BUT I GOT TO SHOW YOU THE
DRAWINGS IT'S SUCH A GOOD ONE
DRAWINGS SO THE EXISTING IS
BUT I GOT TO SHOW YOU THE
HERE ON THE TOP.
DRAWINGS SO THE EXISTING IS
HERE'S HOW THE EDITION WOULD
HERE ON THE TOP.
TIE IN AND FILL IN THIS CORNER.
HERE'S HOW THE EDITION WOULD
YOU'LL STILL SEE THE ENTIRE
TIE IN AND FILL IN THIS CORNER.
OF THE ONE AND A H STORY
YOU'LL STILL SEE THE ENTIRE
HERE THAT'S THAT'S MAINTAINED
OF THE ONE AND A H STORY
HERE.
HERE THAT'S THAT'S MAINTAINED
IT'S JUST A VERY LOW HIP THAT'S
HERE.
GOING TO TIE IN VERY NICELY TO
IT'S JUST A VERY LOW HIP THAT'S
THIS ROOF SURFACE
INFORMATION
ON THE EXISTING WINDOWS,
INFORMATION ON THE THE SIDING
UP HERE ON TOP INFORMATION ON
THE WINDOWS.
I THINK THAT'S IT.
YEAH, I'VE ALREADY READ THOSE
STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES SO
STAFF STILL RECOMMEND APPROVAL.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
OK, NOW WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE
REVIEW COMMITTEE REPORT.
COMMISSIONER CAPLAN, DO YOU
WANT TO GIVE US YOUR REPORT?
OH YEAH.
I THINK THERE ISN'T MUCH TO ADD
TO WHAT JUST THAT I HAVE A
QUESTION BUT I'LL SAVE IT FOR
FOR THAT VERY SECTION OF THE
REVIEW.
APPRECIATE THAT.
YES.
I ALSO DON'T HAVE I DON'T HAVE
ANYTHING OH I JUST REITERATE
THAT THAT THE LITTLE
FIRST-FLOOR EXISTING ROOF THAT
THEY'RE MATCHING THE IS VERY,
VERY SHALLOW.
IT'S JUST YOU CAN'T SEE THAT
ROOF AT ALL.
YEAH.
EVEN WE WERE BACK IN THE YARD
YOU CAN SEE IT IT'S JUST VERY,
VERY SHALLOW AND THEN
EVERYTHING ELSE HAS BEEN
MENTIONED.
SO LET'S MOVE ON TO THE
PLICANT COMMENT SO THE
APPLICANT PLEASE APPROACH THE
PODIUM AND PROVIDE YOUR NAME
AND ADDRESS FOR THE RECORD AND
SO YOU'VE GOT FIVE MINUTES TO
SPEAK BUT JUST DO YOU HAVE
ANYTHING TO ADD TO THE STAFF
REPORT OF THE REVIEW COMMITTEE
REPORT?
LOOK AT MY NAME IS BRIAN CROSS
AND THE ARCHITECTURE OF THE
DRAWINGS ADDRESSES 1840 KANALA
HERE IN ANN HARBOR.
I DON'T REALLY HAVE ANYTHING TO
ADD SO I GUESS I'M HERE TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS YOU GUYS
MIGHT HAVE GREAT.
JUST WANT IN IN THE ADDITION
THE THE RABBIT THE THE THE THE
RENDERING IT WAS HARD FOR ME TO
SEE THERE'S PROBABLY ANOTHER
DRAWING THAT SHOWS IT BUT THE
OVERHANG OF THE ROOF AT THE
REAR OF THAT ADDITION IS IT
DESIGNED TO MATCH THE OVERHANG
ALONG THE SIDE SO THAT IT'S THE
SAME DIMENSIONS ALL THE WAY
AROUND IT WRAPS THAT WAY.
YEAH
.
SO I AM PROPOSING THAT THE
FASCIA DOESN'T JOG FIVE INCHES
LIKE THE EXTERIOR WALL FIVE
INCHES SO I'M CARRYING THE
FASCIA STRETCH FROM THE FRONT
CONTINUOUSLY TO THE BACK.
SO THEN THE OVERHANG GETS MORE
YEAH A LITTLE MORE PROFOUND AS
YOU GO BACK.
OK, AND THE MAIN REASON BEHIND
THAT IS THAT EVEN THOUGH YOU
CAN'T SEE AT TOP OF THE
ROOF IF YOU LOOK AT THE TOP
OF THE GRAPH FROM SATELLITE
VIEW YOU'LL SEE AS A HEBRA.
SO AT THE FRONT IT'S A LOT
OF LIGHT TO RETURN TO THE FRONT
OF THE HOUSE AND THEN ON THE
SIDE IT COMES DOWN ON THE BACK
SAME THING.
SO THE NEW ROOF WILL ALSO BE A
BROKEN SHAPE.
SO IF I HAVE A FIVE INCH JOG
INCORPORATE THAT INTO THE ROOF
IT WOULD THEN INCORPORATE A NEW
HIP.
YEAH.
WHICH MIGHT BE KIND OF AWKWARD
GIVEN THAT THIS IS LIKE
STANDING ON A ROOF.
YEAH.
SO MY THOUGHT IS JUST LEAVE
THAT OFF AND CONTINUE THE
FASCIA STRAIGHT ACROSS THAT
SENSIBLE BUT THEN DO YOU MATCH
THE REAR OVERHANG TO THE
BROADER OVERHANG FROM WHERE
THAT WHERE THE ADDITION NOT
JUST IN OR IS IT TIED TO THE
OVERHANG OF THE ROOF AT THE
FRONT OF THE HOUSE I MATCHED
THE REAR OVERHANG TO THE SIDE
OF THE DEEPER SIDE OVERHANG SO
THAT WHEN IT TURNS THE CORNER
PERFECTLY WELL THAT'S WHAT I
WANT TO KNOW.
IT ALSO LOOKS LIKE THAT IT IT
DOESN'T GO TOO FAR THOUGH TO
CUT OFF THAT VERY LONG SLOPING
ONE AND A RIGHT THAT'S WHAT I'M
SEEING HERE IS LIKE YOU'LL
STILL BE ABLE TO SEE THAT ONE
IN ELSBERRY ROOF.
YEAH ALONG IT YEAH.
BECAUSE YOUR EYE WOULD IF IT
CAME OUT OF THAT YOU WOULDN'T
BE ABLE TO SEE IT BUT IT LOOKS
LIKE WELL FROM THE RENDERINGS
AND FROM THIS VIEW HERE YOU'LL
YOU'LL STILL BE ABLE TO SEE IT.
YEAH AND I COULDN'T REALLY CUT
THAT BACK BECAUSE IF I HAD I
WOULD THEN EXPOSING THE TOP
OF THE BRICK THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE AND THAT THAT ROOF
OVERHANG IT LOOKS LIKE IT'S
COMING DOWN REALLY FAR BUT IT'S
ONLY STICKING UP FROM THE
EXISTING HOUSE OF SO YEAH.
JUST DECIDED TO BE THAT
ESPECIALLY BECAUSE WE WANT TO
STEP IT IN FIVE INCHES FROM
THAT CORNER AND THAT OF COURSE
MEANT THAT WE NEEDED TO TAKE
THE TWO WINDOWS AND KIND
OF PULL THEM TO THE NEW
COMPETITION TO AVOID THE
EXISTING GUTTER RIGHT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT?
WELL, OK, I HAVE A QUESTION FOR
YOU.
THE THIS HAS TO DO WITH THE THE
THE INDENT AND I THINK THE
BRICK IS COMING IN FIVE INCHES.
YEP.
AND THEN I'M GOING UP THE WALL
THERE AND I'M PICTURING THAT
THIS IS A BRICK CLADDING LIKE A
FULL REAL BRICK CLADDING.
RIGHT.
SO THERE'LL BE AN AIR GAP AND
THEN FRAME WALL INSIDE OF THAT.
SO WHEN AND THEN YOU HAVE A
LIMESTONE CAP AND THEN THE
VERTICAL BOREHOLE.
SO WHEN YOU HAVE THE VERTICAL
BOREHOLE THERE THAT'S NOT GOING
TO BE FIVE INCHES.
RIGHT.
ISN'T THAT GOING TO BE IN LIKE
MORE LIKE FOUR INCHES FROM THE
WON'T THAT BE LIKE A TOTAL
OF MAYBE NINE INCHES IN OK GOT
IT.
SO SO IN THE END IS FIVE INCHES
THAT THE BRICK AND THEN MORE
LIKE I THINK EIGHT OR NINE OR
SOMETHING BECAUSE YOU'LL HAVE
THREE OR FIVE OR SIX HALF INCH
GAP BEHIND.
YEAH YEAH.
SO THERE'LL BE A NINE INCH
RETURN WHERE WE HAVE THE SIDING
SO THE BRICK WALL KIND OF UP
MORE AS OF A YEAR SO IT'S LIKE
A STRUCTURAL BRICK RIGHT.
LIKE WHAT WE SEE ON THE HOUSE.
SO I THINK THAT THAT PROBABLY
HELPS THE COMMISSION WE'RE FIVE
INCHES IS IS ON THE MINIMAL
SIDE NINE INCHES SEEMS AT LEAST
THAT'S KIND OF YOU KNOW, WE
LIKE LIKE A FOOT OR A FOOT AND
A HALF OR SOMETHING.
BUT THIS IS A SMALL PROJECT SO
FIVE MAYBE KIND OF YOU KNOW,
BUT I THINK WE'RE GETTING THERE
AND VISUALLY HAVING THAT STEP
BACK I THINK IS IT'S REALLY
GOING TO REVEAL KIND OF IT'S
TWO SEPARATE THINGS.
YEAH, OK.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL THANKS FOR THAT
EXPLANATION.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT HERE?
ALL RIGHT.
WE MIGHT NEED YOU AGAIN, RYAN,
BUT JUST WELL WE'LL CALL YOU UP
IF WE NEED YOU AND WE'LL MOVE
TO THE PUBLIC COMMENT.
I DON'T SEE ANYONE HERE FOR
PUBLIC COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE ON THE LINE
THERE IS NOT OK, SO WE'LL CLOSE
THAT PORTION AND WE WILL MOVE
ON TO THE MOTION IS THERE ANY
COMMISSIONER WHO WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A MOTION ON THIS HEARING
COMMISSIONER OF PLEASE
I MOVE
THAT THE COMMISSION ISSUE A
CERTIFICATE FOR APPROPRIATENESS
FOR THE APPLICATION OF FIVE
FORTY S FIRST STREET THE
CONTRIBUTING PROPERTY THE OLD
WEST SIDE HISTORIC DISTRICT TO
ADD ONE HUNDRED AND NINETY NINE
SQUARE FOOT REAR EDITION REAR
VISION AS PROPOSED THE WORK IS
COMPATIBLE IN EXTERIOR DESIGN
ARRANGEMENT TEXTURE MATERIAL IN
RELATIONSHIP TO THE REST OF THE
BUILDING AND THE SURROUNDING
AREA AND MEETS SECRETARY
OF INTERIOR STANDARDS FOR
REHABILITATION AND GUIDELINES
FOR REHABILITATING HISTORIC
BUILDINGS IN PARTICULAR
STANDARDS TWO, FIVE, NINE AND
TEN AND THE GUIDELINES FOR FOUR
BUILDING SITE ADDITIONS AND
ROOFS AS WELL AS THE ANN ARBOR
HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGN
GUIDELINES FOR ALL EDITIONS,
RESIDENTIAL EDITIONS AND ROOFS
THAT WAS MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
GUNN WHO DO HAVE A SECOND THERE
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER KAPLIN
.
THANK YOU BOTH.
ANY DISCUSSION ON THE MOTION?
OK, NOTHING.
OK I'M I'M GUESSING THAT THE
LACK OF DISCUSSION IS JUST DUE
TO AGREEMENT WITH THE WITH THE
PROPOSAL HERE AND AND SO LET'S
JUST GO RIGHT TO A VOTE THEN
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR PLEASE SAY
YES.
YES, YES ALL THOSE OPPOSED
PLEASE SAY NO.
THE MOTION CARRIES YOUR
APPLICATION HAS BEEN APPROVED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU JOE.
YEAH OK WELL THAT WAS THE LAST
HEARING I WAS LOOKING AT THE
CLOCK EARLIER.
DID IT DID ANYONE SEE THAT OK I
THOUGHT I'M LIKE I HOPE OTHER
THAT YOU ARE SEEING THIS
CARTOON AND NOW IT'S BACK TO
THE ACTUAL TIME I REALLY WAS
DIDYMOS FROM YOUR SECOND
MISTAKE WENT ALL THE WAY SO WAS
THE RIGHT NOW IT'S BEEN OVER.
THAT'S HOW EXCITING THIS
MEETING IS.
THE GUYS ON OH YEAH.
OH YEAH YEAH.
IS OUR OFF TO FIX IT NOW BUT
LOOK AT THAT LOOK OK THAT'S
GOOD THAT'S QUITE WELL OK WELL
THAT WE'RE IN THE TWILIGHT
ZONE.
YEAH BUT WHAT TIME IS IT WITH
TWO.
SO NOW WE'RE MOVING ON TO ITEM
G AND THAT'S NEW BUSINESS AND
DO WE HAVE ANY NEW BUSINESS WE
DO NOW HUH.
NO NEW BUSINESS SO LET'S MOVE
TO APPROVAL OF MINUTES.
WE GOT THE DECEMBER MEETING
MINUTES IN OUR PACKET.
WE DID YEAH IT WAS IN THERE.
I DON'T I'M CONFIRMING WE DID
OK THERE WAS ENOUGH OK AND SO
DID ANYONE HAVE A CHANCE TO
REVIEW THOSE AND I DIDN'T CATCH
IT.
I DIDN'T SEE ANYTHING.
OK, I APPRECIATE THAT.
SO THEN THE MEETINGS ARE
APPROVED WITHOUT OBJECTION
WE'LL MOVE ON TO I REPORTS FROM
COMMISSIONERS' WHAT ANY
COMMISSIONER LIKE TO SHARE
SOMETHING WITH THE COMMISSION
OK ASSIGNMENT'S WE'VE GOT THE
MONDAY THE REVIEW COMMITTEE YOU
NEED SOME TO VOLUNTEERS FOR
MONDAY MARCH 11 AT NOON AND THE
MEETING THAT WEEK IS THURSDAY,
MARCH 14TH.
SO EVERYONE OPEN UP YOUR IS
IRI'S FINAL NOON.
OK, YOU COMMITTEE IN STARTING
FOR THE APRIL MEETING THEY'LL
BE AT FIVE O'CLOCK MORE
RELIABLE IF IT'S IN ONE HOUR I
GET YEAH WELL THE PROBLEM IS
THERE'S NEVER ANY GUARANTEE
THAT'LL BE AN HOUR AND THAT'S
ACTUALLY SORT OF WEIRD THAT
WE'VE HAD SO MANY IN A ROW THAT
ARE ONLY A COUPLE
OF APPLICATIONS.
SO I DON'T THINK IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING BETWEEN 12 AND TWO YOU
SHOULD NOT VOLUNTEER TYPICALLY
I CAN DO IT.
YOU CAN DO IT.
ALL RIGHT.
WE GOT CALBUCO OK, IT'S GREAT.
CATHY AND STEVE, THANK YOU BOTH
.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
HEY, REPORTS FROM STAFF WHAT
ARE YOU GOT?
SO AT THE LAST MEETING THAT WAS
CANCELED I HAD PUT THE AGENDA
TO TALK ABOUT THE RETREAT
TYPICALLY WE HAVE AND ONCE ONCE
A YEAR RETREAT IT'S HELD ON A
SATURDAY MORNING.
IT'S USUALLY FROM 9:00 TO NOON
.
WE TRY TO DO IT BEFORE SPRING
IS OVER BECAUSE THEN EVERYTHING
HEATS UP AND NOBODY CAN EVER
GET AWAY ON A SATURDAY MORNING.
SO I WOULD LOVE
POLE OR
SOMETHING IF YOU WANTED ME TO
SEND THAT OUT BUT IF YOU CAN
GIVE ME SOME IDEAS OF WHEN
MAY OR MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE,
THIS WOULD NOT BE PUTSY.
IT'S FEBRUARY.
NOW THIS COULD BE IN EARLY
MARCH.
IT COULD NOT BE IN LATE MARCH
BECAUSE OF ALL THE SPRING
BREAKS.
IT COULD BE IN EARLY APRIL.
SO WE'RE LOOKING AT EARLIER
MARCH OR EARLY APRIL AND
OFTENTIMES PEOPLE WILL JUST SAY
I'M GOING TO BE OUT OF TOWN
THIS WEEKEND OR THAT WEEKEND
AND WE CAN
KNOCK THEM OUT THAT
WAY OR IF THERE ARE NO
CONFLICTS WHICH NEVER HAPPENS,
WE CAN JUST CHOOSE A WEEKEND.
THIS IS THE PURPOSE OF THIS
RETREAT AND OUR GOAL SETTING IN
OUR PLANS SETTING FOR THE YEAR
IS FIGHTING OR IS IT IT'S SO SO
WE DO A COUPLE OF THINGS AT
EVERY RETREAT WE LOOK AT THE
BYLAWS AND IF ANY CHANGES NEED
TO BE MADE USUALLY THAT'S A
FIVE MINUTE EXERCISE BUT ONCE
IN A WHILE, ONCE EVERY 10 YEARS
OR SO WE DO NEED TO CHANGE
THINGS IN THE BYLAWS.
THEN IT BECOMES A BIGGER
DISCUSSION.
WE ALWAYS HAVE A SLIDESHOW
OF PROJECTS THAT HAVE BEEN
APPROVED AND BUILT IN THE LAST
YEAR OR TWO WHERE I SHOW YOU
WHAT YOU GUYS LOOKED AT TO
APPROVE IT AND THEN I SHOW YOU
WHAT WAS ACTUALLY BUILT WHICH
IS VERY USEFUL TO HELP YOU GET
A SENSE OF OH THAT'S WHAT IT
LOOKS LIKE WHEN IT'S THIS PAPER
IS AN EXTREMELY USEFUL
EXERCISE.
YEAH.
AND WE OFTEN LOOK AT THINGS AND
SAY WOW THAT THAT WAS A LOT
BETTER THAN I THOUGHT IT WAS
GOING TO BE.
AW MAN WHAT WERE WE THINKING
WHEN WE APPROVED THAT?
SO IT IS IT IS HELPFUL AND
THAT'S THAT TAKES UP A CHUNK
OF TIME BECAUSE THAT'S USUALLY
ONE HUNDRED SLIDES OR SO.
WE GENERALLY HAVE SOME TOPIC
OF TRAINING OR INTEREST OR
THERE'S USUALLY A THEME I
WANTED TO ASK YOU GUYS IF I CAN
PULL THIS OFF IF YOU'D BE
INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE
ABOUT HOW HISTORIC DISTRICTS DO
OR DO NOT IMPACT AFFORDABILITY
AND WHETHER OR NOT THEY THEY
REINFORCE RACISM OR OTHER
HOUSING PRACTICES BECAUSE
THAT'S COMING UP.
NO PEOPLE ARE QUESTIONING THIS
IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
WELL, ALL OF THE HISTORIC
DISTRICTS CLOSE IN TO DOWNTOWN,
YOU KNOW IT'S PRIME REAL ESTATE
IS IS I'M NOT SAYING THAT WE
NEED TO JUSTIFY HISTORIC
DISTRICTS BUT I THINK IT WOULD
BE GOOD TO TALK ABOUT SOME
OF THE BROADER ISSUES THAT YOU
GUYS JUST, YOU KNOW, HAVE MORE
BACKGROUND ON THEM.
THE THING IS I HAVE TO FIND
SOMEBODY TO DO THIS BECAUSE I'M
NOT PREPARED TO DO IT MYSELF
AND WE OFTEN DO THAT WILL BRING
SOMEBODY IN A SORT OF A GUEST
SPEAKER WE HAVE IN THE LAST
COUPLE OF YEARS.
BUT YOU KNOW, THINGS HAVE BEEN
HAPPENING THE LAST COUPLE
OF YEARS.
SO IF THERE ARE NO OBJECTIONS
WE'LL WILL TRY TO FIND SOMEONE
WHO CAN DO THAT WITH US.
AND I'M ALWAYS OPEN TO
ADDITIONAL TOPICS LIKE WE
TALKED ABOUT MAYBE WE NEED TO
MAKE SOME CHANGES TO THE STAFF
APPROVAL LIST.
THIS IS A GREAT TIME TO DO THAT
.
IT'S IT'S A MEETING THAT'S OPEN
TO THE PUBLIC AND USUALLY
SOMEBODY SHOWS UP FROM THE
PUBLIC EYE, BRING IN SORT
OF LIGHT BREAKFAST BAGELS AND
DONUTS AND COFFEE AND STUFF
LIKE THAT.
IT'S IT'S OFTEN THESE DAYS AT A
CITY BUILDING LIKE THE SENIOR
CENTER OR GALLET PARK OR
SOMEPLACE LIKE THAT.
IF ANYBODY HAS ANY IDEAS OR
VIEWS, GREAT SPACES THAT ARE
EASILY ACCESSIBLE TO THE PUBLIC
,THAT WOULD BE GREAT TO HEAR
ABOUT.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
EVERYTHING'S OUT OK?
WE'RE GOOD QUESTION.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
IF YOU COULD FIND SOMEONE TO
SPEAK ON THOSE TOPICS.
YEAH.
IF THERE'S ANYTHING THAT
ESPECIALLY YOU NEWBIES HEAR US
TALK ABOUT OR YOU KIND OF LIKE
I'D LIKE MORE INFORMATION ON
THAT.
IT'S ALSO A GOOD TIME FOR THAT
FOR SORT OF REFRESHER COURSES
FOR ALL OF US ON SPECIFIC
TOPICS.
IF YOU ARE HAVING A HARD TIME
COMING TO GRIPS WITH ADDITIONS
OR WINDOWS OR OR OF PART OF THE
STANDARDS OR OR ALL OF THE
STANDARDS OR GUIDELINES, YOU
KNOW, DON'T BE SHY ABOUT LET ME
KNOW IF THERE'S ANYTHING THAT
WOULD BE HELPFUL.
OK, SO NOW WE'RE GOING ON THE
DATES UM WE HAVE THE FIRST TWO
WEEKENDS IN MARCH WHICH ARE THE
SECOND AND THE NINTH I AM OUT
ON THE NIGHT NOT THE YOU'RE
BOTH YOU'RE OUT ON BOTH.
I'M NOT TOO WORRIED ABOUT YOU
JUST AS I WAS I WAS I CAN'T DO
THEM BUT DON'T LET ME OUT
OF HERE BECAUSE WE'D LOVE TO
HAVE YOU BY THE IF MAYBE JUST
TELL ME WHAT THE I'M SORRY YOU
SAID THAT YOU'RE OUT THE NINTH
DAY IT LOOKS LIKE IT IT'S VERY
LIKELY I CAN GET BACK TO THE
NOON.
YEP.
OR WE COULD ETHANOL UP TO
ELEVEN IF PEOPLE WOULD RATHER I
I DIDN'T USE NOBODY LIKES TO
GET OUT BUT NOBODY LIKES TO
TAKE THEIR SATURDAY I THINK I
KNOW I KNOW
I THINK THAT
ACTUALLY I THINK I CAN'T DO THE
SECOND BECAUSE I THINK THERE'S
A SOCCER GAME I WAS JUST ADDED
TO THE SCHEDULE AND TELL ME
ABOUT IT.
THAT'S RIGHT.
I'LL BE IN CINCINNATI FOR A
TOURNAMENT.
OH NO THAT'S WORSE THAN
WHATEVER YOU GOT.
I'M GOING TO SAY MARCH 9TH.
NO DAVID BUT APRIL'S LOOKING OK
APRIL LET'S SEE THE SIXTH AND
THE THIRTEENTH I CAN GET THE
THIRTEENTH BUT I'M FREE FOR THE
SIXTH YEAR FREE FOR THIS SEX.
OK, WELL THERE'S NEVER A DATE
THAT ACTUALLY WORKS FOREVER.
YEAH SO YEAH.
AND SHOULDN'T EXPECT THAT QUITE
FRANKLY I'M MORE INTERESTED IN
GETTING THE NEWER COMMISSIONERS
THERE THAN THE ONES THAT HAVE
MORE EXPERIENCE NO OFFENSE.
SO IF WE HAVE TO PICK A DAY
WHERE SOMEBODY CAN'T GO THAT'S
GOT TO KIND OF TIP THE SCALES
BUT I'M HEARING NO APRIL SIX
WHO SAID NO TO APRIL 30 THAT
WAS ME.
OK OK SO SIX IS NO CHIP THIRTY
IS NO BAD.
UH WHAT ABOUT THE TWENTIETH IN
THE TWENTY SEVENTH OR YOU SAID
EARLY.
WELL I MEAN I'M SORRY THE
TWENTIETH WE THE SECOND SEASON
THEN THEY LOOK QUITE POSSIBLY I
DID JUST SEND THAT OUT.
YEAH MAYBE YEAH I GUESS I CAN'T
DO TWENTY THREE YEAH.
CYCLEWAYS YOU APRIL 27 ABRAHIM
SABBATINO OH GOD IT'S NOT AN
ACTUAL SIBERRY HERE.
YEAH SO APRIL 27 IS TORNADOES
SO THAT'S PROBABLY NOT IDEAL
BECAUSE WELL IT DEPENDS IF IT'S
THE IT'S REALLY A NIGHTTIME
HOLIDAY TO BE HONEST SO YEAH
IT'S OVER WOULD BE OK.
IT WOULD BE OK YEAH.
YEAH IT CAN HAVE A BAGEL YOU
KNOW BUT OTHER THAN THAT BUT
YOU CAN HAVE YOU ANYTHING IN
THE MORNING ON PASSABLY BE
FINE.
YEAH IT'S A DYNAMIC TIME KIND
APRIL 27 WE'RE HEARING ANY
OBJECTIONS.
WE ARE DEEP INTO THE SOCCER
SEASON I I KNOW AND WE WON'T I
WON'T OR I WON'T HAVE OUR
SOCCER SCHEDULE BEGIN THE
WEEKEND OF APRIL 13TH FOR THE I
COULD REQUEST I CAN MAKE A
REQUEST FOR AN AFTERNOON GAME
THAT DAY SO I CAN SEND MY KID
WITH SOMEBODY ELSE WHERE THE
COACHES SO WE HAVE TO OK SO
TENTATIVELY APRIL TWENTY SEVEN
IS THE WINNER.
OH ALL GOOD THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
AND I'LL REPORT BACK NEXT MONTH
WHETHER I'M HAVING ANY LUCK
FINDING A SUITABLE MODERATOR
SPEAKER GIVES YOU A LITTLE MORE
TIME TO FIND SOMEONE WHO DOES
THEM.
THAT'S GOOD TOO.
YEAH OK AND IF THAT DOESN'T
WORK OUT WE WILL SHIFT GEARS
AND SWITCH TOPICS.
THANK YOU ALL.
THANK YOU.
GIVE MASTERS FOR NEXT FIND.
YEAH YEAH YEAH YEAH.
UM OK SO IS THERE ANY MORE
REPORTS FROM STAFF.
NOPE THAT'S IT.
OK ARE YOU GETTING A LOT
OF LIKE SPRINGTIME REQUESTS FOR
THINGS.
YEAH OR YEAH OK WHAT IS THIS
AGENDA AD FOR ADDITIONS.
YEAH AIRCONDITIONERS OR
WHATEVER HE DOES COME HAVE
THOSE YET.
NO NOT YET JUST RIGHT OK AND I
WAS NEXT MONTH LOOKING I
ALREADY HAVE TO EGRESS WINDOWS
THAT WERE INCOMPLETE FOR THIS
MONTH SO GUYS ON NEXT MONTH'S
AGENDA VERY GOOD.
ALL RIGHT WELL LET'S MOVE ON
THEN TO CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS.
ARE THERE ANY CONCERNS
OF COMMISSIONERS?
NOT A CONCERN BUT YEAH,
OF COURSE IN THE REVIEW OF 85
FIVE THIRD STREET IN THE BACK
OF MY MIND YOU AND I WHEN WE
WERE THERE WE BOTH NOTICED YOU
WERE TALKING ABOUT THE
PROXIMITY TO THE HOUSE ON THE
NEIGHBORING HOUSE AND HOW IT
BLOCKS WINDOWS.
I DIDN'T BRING IT UP IN THIS
BECAUSE I MY MY MY REAL FEELING
OF FEELING IS MY CONCERNS WERE
ABOUT STOCK.
THE HISTORIC NATURE OF THE
HOUSE AND I'M PRESUMING THAT IF
THAT WALL GOING RIGHT IN FRONT
OF THE WINDOW OF THAT GUY'S
BASEMENT OFFICE WHO IS NEXT
DOOR IF THAT WERE AN ISSUE
OF LIVABILITY THAT IT WOULD
HAVE COME IN HIS REQUEST FOR
HIS MODIFICATION OF VARIANCE OR
SOMETHING THAT'S THAT'S JUST
NOT OUR PURVIEW TO BRING UP, IS
IT?
WELL, WE LOOK AT THE PLACEMENT
OF THE ADDITION ON THE LOT AND
WE DO LOOK AT IMPACTS TO
NEIGHBORING HISTORIC
STRUCTURES.
RIGHT TO EXTORT STRUCTURES AND
THE POINT OF VIEW OF HOW WE SEE
THEM WERE TO BLOCK OUR VIEW
OF AN HISTORIC STRUCTURE THAT
WAS NEIGHBORING.
I CAN SEE THAT MATTERING TO US
OR IF IT'S LOOMING IF THERE'S
SOMETHING SMALL IT'S GOING TO
BE LOOMING OVER A HISTORIC
STRUCTURE.
A LOT OF TIMES THAT COMES UP.
BUT IN THIS CASE IT WASN'T THAT
IT WAS JUST THAT WE WERE
LOOKING THERE'S A WALL IT'S
GOING TO GO UP BY THREE
FEET
AWAY FROM SOMEONE'S HOME OFFICE
AND IT'S A SOUTH FACING WINDOW.
IT'S JUST LIKE HIS LIFE IS
GOING TO CHANGE.
I JUST DON'T KNOW THAT THAT'S
THAT HERE IS WHERE WE ADDRESS
THAT.
I WOULD THINK NOT.
AND YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES WE GET
NEIGHBORS WHO COME IN TO THE
PUBLIC HEARING AND SAY THEY HAD
A CHOICE, SAY BAD THINGS.
I DON'T WANT THIS IN MY
BACKYARD.
I MEAN THEY PROBABLY DID SOME
SOME POSITIVE OUTREACH A CHARM
OFFENSIVE TO MAKE THAT OK.
I DON'T KNOW IF THE NEIGHBORS
KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON RIGHT IN
THIS CASE.
RIGHT.
BUT THEY DID NOTICE THAT I LIKE
NO THEY DON'T GET NOTICES
INTEREST REALLY.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
FOR THE THEY WOULD YES.
YEAH I'M SORRY I'M SORRY.
YEAH YEAH I APPRECIATE IT BUT
YES THEY HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY
THAT DOES FEEL LIKE A ZONING
ISSUE RIGHT.
THAT'S THAT'S KIND OF WHAT I
THOUGHT AND I DIDN'T WANT TO
BECAUSE THERE ARE THERE ALWAYS
GOOD TO JUST BRING SOMETHING UP
TO.
YEAH IT'S A GOOD QUESTION BUT
ALSO JUST YEAH.
THROW IT OUT THERE.
YEAH THERE ARE GUIDELINES THAT
TALK ABOUT THE HISTORIC SETTING
AND WE DO LOOK AT THINGS LIKE
HOW MUCH OF THE HISTORICALLY
OPEN BACKYARD IS THIS IN A
COVER UP AND AND IS IT GOING TO
LOOK FUNNY STICKING OUT IN THE
BACK AND EVERYBODY ELSE'S
BACKYARDS END UP HERE AND NOW
YOURS IS GOING TO START BACK
THERE BECAUSE OF THIS BIG
ADDITION JUTTING OUT.
BUT YEAH, IT'S IT'S I MEAN I
THINK THERE ARE A WHOLE LOT
OF OTHER CONCERNS LIKE YOU
KNOW, THAT AREN'T OURS LIKE YOU
KNOW DEALING WITH STORMWATER
RUN.
OH YEAH YEAH THEY YEAH THEY
HAVE A SYSTEM LIKE YEAH BUT
THAT'S NOT FOR US RIGHT
EXACTLY.
I'M DYING TO KNOW HOW THEY'RE
GOING TO EXCAVATE BACK.
I MEAN THEY'RE GOING TO FLY AN
EXCAVATOR.
YEAH YEAH IT'S GOING TO BE A
MODULAR THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE
TO DO A MODULAR BUILDING OR
SOMETHING AND THEY WON'T BE
ABLE TO GET ANY ANYTHING BIG
BACK THERE.
YEAH.
OR ANYTHING SMALL STRONG.
VERY GOOD.
OK, THANK YOU FOR THAT COMMENT.
I APPRECIATE IT.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS COMMENTS
CONCERNS OF COMMISSIONERS.
YEAH GOOD.
NEXT MONTH WILL BE MY LAST
MEETING SO I'M LEAVING BUT
YOU'LL BE BUSY JUST HOPEFULLY
WE CAN FIND THE NEW FILLER
WE'RE LOOKING FOR OIL.
YEAH WHERE WE ARE WE ARE
LOOKING SO IF ANY OF YOU KNOW
ANYONE THAT'S ALWAYS WINS
JENNIFER'S MAIDEN JABBERS THIS
STILL OH SHE'S STAYING.
YEAH, I HAD A CONVERSATION WITH
HER TODAY ABOUT THAT.
SHE'S DOING GOOD.
YEAH YES YES YES YEAH YEAH.
THAT WORKED OUT FINE.
YEAH IT'S GOOD OK WELL YES WE
WILL YES WE WILL.
WE ARE VERY SAD TO SEE YOU GO I
I'M SPEECHLESS.
MAYBE I'LL JUST COME TO YOU.
WELL NO I WE DON'T WANT YOU
DOING THAT WE DON'T WANT TO DO
THAT UNTIL WE LOVE HAVING YOU
ON THE COMMISSION.
SO IS THERE ANYBODY IN YOUR
OFFICE LET'S I'LL POKE AROUND.
YEAH I MEAN GREG I TALKED TO
GREG SEVERAL TIMES ABOUT IT.
YEAH.
I MEAN HE'S BEEN ON THE
COMMISSION GREAT.
GREG JOHNSON HE HE WASN'T
INTERESTED.
YEAH UNFORTUNATELY.
OK SO THEN WITH WHEN WE DID THE
SLOTTING OF THE SPOTS FOR WHO'S
GOING TO BE THE LEADERSHIP
OF THE COMMISSION THE ELECTION
OF OFFICERS.
YEAH JEN WAS ASSUMING THAT SHE
WAS NOT GOING TO BE PART OF THE
COMMISSION SO SHE WOULD HAVE
PROBABLY STEPPED UP AS A
LEADER.
SO NOW I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO
ABOUT THAT.
I FEEL LIKE IT'S I MEAN WE'VE
GOT OFFICERS THERE WHO THEY
ARE.
OK, YEAH.
IF SOMEBODY WANTED TO STEP DOWN
I GUESS WE COULD HAVE OTHER
ELECTIONS BUT THERE WAS
SOMEBODY WHO REALLY DIDN'T WANT
TO BE AN OFFICER.
OH WELL YEAH THAT WAS BASICALLY
THE SITUATION IN DECEMBER WHERE
PEOPLE REALLY DID WANT TO BE
MISSED A LOT.
THAT MEETING WELL BECAUSE WE
WERE SORT OF IT WAS AN OBVIOUS
HERE'S WHO IS GOING TO BE NEXT.
AND THEN THEY BOTH TOLD US THEY
WERE GOING TO BE ON THE
COMMISSION ANYMORE AND SO THEN
I WAS LIKE YEAH YEAH YEAH OK.
WELL OK.
SO IF YOU ARE A OFFICER AND YOU
REALLY DON'T WANT TO BE ONE YOU
NEED TO BRING THAT UP BEFORE
THE NEXT MEETING AND DO WE KNOW
THAT JENNIFER REALLY WANTS TO
BE WITH.
NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
I MEAN SHE HASN'T EXPRESSED IT
TO ME.
SHE'S EXPRESSED NO REGRETS AND
NOT RUNNING IN DECEMBER AND SO
SHE VARIABLE WELL THAT'S WHEN
SHE THOUGHT SHE WAS MOVING TO
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT ANYWAY.
YEAH, OK.
SHE'S GOOD.
OH GOOD.
THAT'S THAT'S REALLY GREAT
NEWS .
YES IT IS.
I'M SO HAPPY TO HEAR THAT.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS THIS
MONTH THERE ARE NO OK VERY GOOD
IN THAT CASE I NOW ADJOURN THE
FEBRUARY 8TH TWENTY TWENTY FOUR
HDC MEETING THANK YOU ALL